Rare High End Michael Jordan Basketball Cards Discovered in Arizona Shoe Boxes After Two Decades
News provided by
Auction Monthly 
Jan 14, 2025, 13:07 ET

Share this article
     
Significant find of 500+ valuable Michael Jordan basketball cards enters the sports card market

GRANITE BAY, Calif., Jan. 14, 2025 /PRNewswire/ -- A rare collection of over 500 Michael Jordan sports cards were discovered in shoe boxes located inside a home in Tucson, Arizona. We were contacted by a man who had inherited his brother's rare sports card collection. The collection is valued well into the six-figures and it will be sold by Auction Monthly.

Rare High End Michael Jordan Basketball Card Collection
Rare High End Michael Jordan Basketball Card Collection
The rare basketball cards originally belonged to an Arizona collector who embarked on a mission to acquire every Michael Jordan refractor card produced from the 1990's to early 2000's. His dedicated pursuit resulted in an astonishing accumulation of nearly every Jordan Refractor and Atomic Refractor across various brands from 1993 Finest up until Jordan's final years with the Washington Wizards. This level of sports card collecting dedication is uncommon, making the collection even more impressive.

"We are thrilled to announce the discovery of this extraordinary basketball card collection," says Ryan Jones, Auction Monthly's Director of Marketing & Public Relations. "The sheer volume of high-grade Michael Jordan cards, coupled with the inclusion of rare inserts and cards from other basketball legends like Kobe Bryant and Shaquille O'Neal, makes this a once-in-a-generation find. We anticipate significant interest from collectors worldwide." 

The highlight of this amazing basketball card collection is the impressive selection of rare insert cards including Precious Metal Gems, Star Rubies and Ultra Gold Stars.

Among the collection's highlights are:

2001 Topps Chrome Black Refractors /50 (Two of only 50 ever produced are in this collection)
1996 Flair Showcase Row O Legacy Collection /150
1997 Skybox E-X2001 Jambalaya
Multiple East - West Michael Jordan / Kobe Bryant Refactors
Ultra Power Supreme 1996 Topps Chrome & 1998 Topps Chrome Preview Jordan Refractors
The collection is currently undergoing professional grading including several cards sent to PSA for grading. Many of the cards from this collection will be made available to the public at www.AuctionMonthly.com.

Potential buyers can get regular updates at AuctionMonthly.com/Twitter (X) and @AuctionMonthly/Instagram.

About Auction Monthly:

Auction Monthly helps collectors sell vintage and modern sports cards, memorabilia, sports / entertainment tickets, and other collectibles. Auction Monthly sells many items to direct buyers and they use select auction houses for consignments. The owners of auction monthly created the company to provide collectors a better way to sell sports cards and collectibles with superior customer service. Collectors trust selling with Auction Monthly based on the company's reputation for achieving top prices and providing white glove customer service from start to finish. Auction Monthly developed an influencers and athletes referral program with the highest referral rates in the sports card industry.

For breaking stories and new information: AuctionMonthly.com or AuctionMonthly/Twitter (X)

Media Contact: 
pr@auctionmonthly.com
(800) 560-3272
Hi-Res Images Available

SOURCE Auction Monthly