Thank you for downloading this Simon & Schuster ebook.

Get a FREE ebook when you join our mailing list. Plus, get updates on new releases, deals, recommended reads, and more from Simon & Schuster. Click below to sign up and see terms and conditions.



CLICK HERE TO SIGN UP



Already a subscriber? Provide your email again so we can register this ebook and send you more of what you like to read. You will continue to receive exclusive offers in your inbox.





INTRODUCTION


Welcome to Forbidden Knowledge.

From simple things like crashing a wedding or beating a speed camera to somewhat more complicated stuff like staging an insurance scam or pirating copyrighted files, this ultimate manual of things that are way out of bounds shows you what life on the edge is really like. Whether it’s getting a job you’re not qualified for or conning yourself into the space program, Forbidden Knowledge looks at scenarios from the extremely dangerous (navigating a minefield) to the outrageously illegal (escaping from prison).

Life can throw a lot of stuff at you, and it’s just as well to know about some of your options. Not that you’ll want to try a lot of them—but at least you know they’re there. These entries are an education in intensity. So whether you’re in search of the next great adrenaline rush or in need of an innovative escape plan, there’s plenty to learn. Now, take a deep breath. Steel yourself. Grit your teeth. Because there’s no turning back!





1. FREE DIVE COMPETITIVELY




Have you ever looked at scuba equipment and thought, “This looks incredibly safe. What if instead of wearing all this gear though, I just…you know…didn’t?” Well, you’re not alone. There’s an entire sport devoted to people just like you.





GETTING STARTED


Find the nearest swimming pool, hop in, and hold your breath as long as you can. If you can make it more than sixty seconds, congratulations, you’re above average! Competitive free divers can hold theirs for more than ten minutes, but hey, it’s a start.

Before you start training, you’ll need to decide what aspect of the sport you’ll be competing in, as your training regimen will differ:

Static apnea: timed breath holding in a swimming pool.

Dynamic apnea: underwater swimming in a pool for distance; can be done with or without fins. There are six depth disciplines, which differ in the method of descent and ascent, of which “no limits” is the sexiest: You use any means of breath holding to dive to depth using a weighted sled and return to the surface along a guideline with the help of an air-filled bag.





TRAINING


Fortunately, humans have the mammalian diving reflex. That means as soon as your face hits the water, you will start to experience a drop in heart rate; your blood vessels will shrink and fill up with plasma to prevent your lungs from collapsing; and blood is directed away from the limbs to the heart, lungs, and brain.

One training method is the apnea walk. You start by relaxing your body and taking a few deep breaths, followed by a one-minute breath hold taken at rest. Then you walk as far as you can without taking a breath (top free divers can walk for over four hundred meters). This trains your muscles to operate under anaerobic conditions and to tolerate the buildup of carbon dioxide in the bloodstream.

Hyperventilating before a dive lowers the level of carbon dioxide in your lungs and bloodstream, which fools your body into thinking that it is less starved of oxygen than it really is. However, it doesn’t raise the amount of oxygen, so most free divers only take three or four oxygenating breaths before a dive.

Always train and dive with a friend. Diving alone is the main cause of serious accidents. If you black out, you need a friend to drag you back to the surface and give you the kiss of life.





2. ESCAPE FROM PRISON




Only consider a jail break if you are on death row or serving a life sentence with little chance of parole. Otherwise, you would be wiser to do your time. It is worth considering the consequence of a failed escape attempt: solitary confinement, an increase in your sentence, or drowning in the freezing waters off whatever godforsaken prison island you’ve managed to get yourself stuck on.





METHODS OF ESCAPE


If you are disorganized or lack the necessary temperament to plan and execute a getaway over several months, you are more suited to an opportunistic escape: a door left unlocked, a faulty electric perimeter fence, etc. However, you may have to wait a long time for such an opportunity to present itself, time better spent tunneling a hole behind the toilet.

Also, if you consider that the odds of one door being left unlocked are a hundred to one, if you have to get through five doors to reach freedom, the chances of all five of them being unlocked at the same time are one in ten billion. To put this into perspective, you’re two million times more likely to die in the first thirty days after total knee replacement surgery.

If, on the other hand, you are a meticulous planner, good with your hands, and a perfectionist problem solver with an eye for detail, you should opt for a planned escape. If nothing else, your single-minded focus on breaking out will give you a sense of hope and purpose.





Location, Location, Location


If you live in Mexico, Germany, or Belgium, start digging! They’re among a handful of countries that believe it is human nature to want to escape and don’t punish criminals for attempting to do so. Provided no additional laws were broken during the breakout.





GETTING HELP


Whether you dig a tunnel, hide in a laundry sack, or start a riot, most prison breaks require assistance from others either inside or outside the prison. Those on the outside—friends and family—you can trust. However, getting people to help you in prison requires considerable interpersonal skills, and you must be prepared to forgo some of your luxuries (e.g., toilet paper, instant noodles, recreational drugs) so that you can use them to bribe other inmates or even a prison guard to assist you and to keep quiet.





3. CRASH A WEDDING




There are three common reasons for attending a wedding without an invitation: scoring free food, getting laid, and breaking up the couple. Whatever your intentions, you won’t make it through cocktail hour without a solid plan.





STEALING FOOD


This is probably the least ambitious motivation for the wedding crasher and may not even be cost effective. If you’ve had to spend several hundred dollars on an outfit to blend in with the wedding party, it is unlikely that you can recoup your initial expense, no matter how many salmon terrines you manage to stuff into your handbag. If a free meal ticket is your main goal, hit low-budget, low-class weddings, and accept that instead of lobster thermidor and caviar, you are more likely to encounter quiches, sausages on sticks, and deviled eggs. On the plus side, there’s no need to hang around for the wedding speeches. In a high-class wedding, pretend to be one of the caterers, because after you’ve spent eight hours on your feet serving, you’ll get to finish off the vol-au-vent and other uneaten high-brow food (of which there will be plenty).





GETTING LAID


Weddings are a pressure cooker of sexual tension. Everyone’s dressed to the nines, pumped full of open-bar booze, dancing up a storm, and uninhibited enough to make some poor life choices. If you concentrate hard enough, you can actually smell the desperation wafting off the single guests.

If you’re just there to get laid, wait until the last hour of the reception when the married couples have all called it a night and everyone else is too sloshed to realize you haven’t been there the whole time. If you’ve got some moves, stick to the dance floor and feel your way around—figuratively, not literally—to see who might be game to keep the party going after hours. If dancing’s not your thing, just belly up to the bar and try to hit it off with a single wallflower before last call.





BREAKING UP A COUPLE


If you’re a jilted ex-lover, you almost certainly aren’t on the guest list. What’s more, the wedding party may have explicit instructions to evict you on sight. If you’re determined to say your piece, stealth and timing are the name of the game here.

You don’t need a full-on disguise, but even small things like dying your hair or wearing dark sunglasses can go a long way toward altering your appearance. Avoid any flashy clothes or colors that might make you stand out.

Ideally, you want to get access to the bride or groom before the ceremony. If you miss that window, the procession is your best bet for sneaking into a seat. With all eyes on the bride, there’s very little chance of being detected. Just make sure whatever you plan to say is short; once you open your mouth, you’ve probably got about three seconds before you have to start running.





Best Ways to Blend In


Hide in the shadows and you’re bound to raise suspicion. Draw too much attention and someone’s going to call you out. Here’s how to strike a balance:

Pick a story and stick to it. You can’t be a long-lost cousin at 7:00 and a childhood pen pal at 9:00.

Move around a lot. The longer you spend in a single conversation, the harder it will be to keep your story straight.

Do your research ahead of time. Where did the couple go to school? Where do they work? What are their hobbies? If you can’t answer these basic questions, you put yourself at serious risk of getting caught.





4. FREE CLIMB THE EIFFEL TOWER




The iron tower completed on the Champ de Mars beside the Seine River in Paris in 1889 is one of the most famous man-made objects in the world. During its lifetime, the 1,063-foot structure has been visited by more than 250 million people, making it one of the most visited monuments on the planet. Evidently, if you want to stand out from the crowd, you need to do something unique on your visit—like scale it without ropes.





PREPARE YOUR MIND AND BODY


Who hasn’t at some time or other shimmied up a drainpipe when they forgot their house keys? How hard can it be to climb the Eiffel Tower?

To get started, find a rock-climbing gym in your area where you can practice your technique and improve your grip strength in a relatively safe environment. You’ll also be able to pick up crucial gear like a chalk pouch and climbing shoes.

Next, you’ll need to learn to override your brain’s natural (and perfectly reasonable) aversion to scaling tall, man-made structures.

Head to the closest major city and beeline it to the tallest office building you can find. Take the elevator to each floor, stopping long enough to press your face against a window and stare at the street below. Stay in that position until the impending sense of doom subsides, head to the next floor, and repeat the process until you’ve made it to the top.





THE ASCENT


The tower is split into three levels. You can reach the first two by stairs (347 steps to the first level, 327 steps to the second level) and elevators, but the top of the third level is only accessible to the public by elevator, or in your case, free climbing. It will save you 17 euros—barely enough to buy an overpriced espresso and croissant on the Champs-Élysées—so don’t attempt the climb just to save money. You’ll get arrested and fined afterward anyway.





TIPS FOR DEATH-FREE URBAN CLIMBING


Cut your fingernails.

Buy some good-quality climbing shoes.

Don’t look down, except when tying your shoelaces.

Only climb structures that support a load.

When resting, straighten your arms and lean back.

Climb slowly and methodically.

Carry some ID or your dentist’s phone number for when you get scraped off the sidewalk.





5. CHASE A GIANT TORNADO




Tornadoes are some of the most violent and dangerous natural events on Earth. Every year in the United States, more than a thousand tornadoes spring up; many of them amount to nothing, while others tear across the landscape for hours, causing mayhem and destruction. A few really rare tornadoes obliterate whole communities. Next summer, take a three-week vacation in the central plains and go storm chasing.





WHAT IS A TORNADO?


Tornadoes are rotating columns of air that extend from the ground to the cumulonimbus clouds in the sky. Warm, humid air at ground level spins as it rises and meets colder air higher up; combine this with a large rotating thunderstorm (“supercell”) overhead and you’ve got the conditions for a killer tornado. About one in a thousand thunderstorms become supercells, and two in six of those generate a tornado. You need to know a lot about the weather, or hang around with someone who does, to stand a chance of getting up close to a tornado, and doing so safely.





The Enhanced Fujita Scale


One thing you’ll need to know about as an amateur storm chaser is the Enhanced Fujita Scale. This is the scale on which the severity of a tornado is rated on a scale of 0 to 5. An EF0 tornado can register wind speeds at as little as 65 mph and cause little to no damage. An EF5 tornado, on the other hand, can register speeds above 200 mph and leave entire towns destroyed in its wake.





WHEN AND WHERE


In the US, about 40 percent of tornadoes appear in the central plains between March and July. Boulder, Colorado—at the foot of the Rocky Mountains—makes a good base camp because you can see for hundreds of miles across the plains, spot the supercells, and drive right to the action.





TECHNOLOGY AND EXPERIENCE


Tornado chasers drive around in vans that are packed with antennae and satellite dishes, and they have banks of screens, computers, and other sophisticated devices to help them predict what’s happening with the weather. The successful ones are also staffed with incredibly experienced people. You can’t just jump in a pickup and head for the nearest storm clouds, because you’ll put yourself in extreme danger. Don’t chase tornadoes on your own. You’ll reduce your odds of seeing one and increase your chances of getting injured.

For your first season, try to hook up with a seasoned storm chaser; many have dedicated social media followings and YouTube channels, making them much easier to find than in the past. Another option is to book a packaged “tornado safari” with a tour firm of skilled chasers. Be sure to research tour options thoroughly, and stick with well-established and well-reviewed groups—chasing tornadoes is not something you’ll want to go with the budget option on.





GET USED TO TRUCK STOP CATERING


You will cover hundreds of miles, and the rest of the time you’ll be sitting around snacking on truck stop food, waiting for things to kick off. On the road, your biggest dangers aren’t tornadoes; they are more mundane threats such as hydroplaning, flat tires, or being struck by lightning. Most likely, you won’t even see a tornado at all, just lots of rain, hailstones, and Twinkies.





6. NAVIGATE A MINEFIELD




Let’s say you’re casually walking along in the demilitarized zone of a war-torn region with a local guide you presumed was familiar with the area. You’re hiking up to a remote village and are about to ask how much farther it could be when an explosion sprouts from under his feet, and he disappears in a cloud of gunpowder and blood.

You realize that you should have paid for the more experienced guide rather than trying to save your boss a few bucks. Now you’re in the middle of a minefield. How do you get out?





STOP MOVING


Freeze. Don’t make another move until you can assess the situation. A hasty move in any direction could kill you.





LOOK FOR A SAFE PATH OUT


The only path you know is safe for sure is where you’ve already walked. If possible, walk backward in your own footsteps until you are positive you’re safe.

If that’s not possible, look for another path. You might see where people or animals have successfully negotiated a way through the mines. Stick to these if you can.





KEEP SHARP


Keep your eyes peeled for freshly turned dirt, trip wires, spikes, lumps, different soil colors, or other irregularities in the ground around you. Avoid these areas.





USE AN ANIMAL


If you have an animal around you, send it the way you figure is the shortest way out of the minefield. Then follow it from a safe distance, stepping exactly in its tracks—or as close as you can manage. This sort of trick only works once per animal, though, so take as much care as you can.





FALL BACK


Some mines detonate not when you step on the mine but when you step off it. If you step on something and feel it click, you may have found such a mine. In any case, you may have up to a second before the mine goes off.

Throw yourself to the ground behind you, your feet toward the expected detonation. You won’t be able to outrun the explosion, but you can cover up and protect as much of yourself as possible.

Five Things Not to Do

Don’t use a probe to find a mine. If you’re close enough to set it off, it’s close enough to hurt you or detonate a mine that’s closer to you.

Don’t use a two-way radio to call for help. Their frequencies can detonate some mines. A cell phone might too, although this is less common.

Don’t voluntarily detonate a mine if you’re anywhere near the minefield. You might cause a chain reaction that could kill you.

Don’t depend on a metal detector. Mines can be made of nonmetallic material.

Don’t try to defuse or disarm a mine unless you really know what you’re doing.



Above all, be careful. The Cooperative for Assistance and Relief Everywhere (CARE) organization estimates that there are 110 million landmines embedded in the earth, and an additional 250 million stockpiled around the world.





7. PIRATE COPYRIGHTED FILES




It’s never been easier to access music, movies, and TV shows from the comfort of our homes, but all that convenience comes at a cost. Streaming subscription services can get hella expensive, hella quick. Luckily, the dark, seedy underbelly of the Internet has no respect for copyright laws.





BITTORRENT IS YOUR FRIEND


Pioneers of peer-to-peer file sharing like Napster, Kazaa, and LimeWire blew the doors off the music and film industries, but they were just the beginning. In their wake, the BitTorrent protocol has emerged as the most efficient and popular way to share content.

Instead of downloading a whole file directly from another user, BitTorrent users download a torrent file containing information on the file’s location. When the torrent is opened with special software, the file is downloaded in pieces from numerous other users who have already downloaded it (or are in the process of doing so). This allows for incredibly fast transfer speeds, making it possible to download entire movies in a matter of minutes or even seconds.





INVEST IN A VPN


Unless you’re downloading and sharing content that’s already in the public domain, you’re breaking the law by downloading copyrighted content. And copyright owners are constantly monitoring torrent files to issue copyright infringement claims.

The surest way to protect yourself is to mask your IP address using a virtual private network (VPN). The VPN acts as a go-between and funnels all of your Internet traffic through a server that’s located far, far away from you. There are a number of free VPN services, but do yourself a favor and invest the $10 a month for a paid one that offers unlimited bandwidth.





GO ANALOG


As the cat-and-mouse game between pirates and copyright holders escalates, the risk of fines and jail time is too much for some people to stomach. In order to minimize those risks, some pirates are going old school and managing their file sharing locally.

USB flash drives containing pirated material can be anonymously hidden out in the real world and their GPS coordinates shared with other pirates to find, copy the contents to their own local drives, and then return them to where they were found. In 2015, AT&T estimated that as much as 20 percent of all Internet traffic was a result of file transfers using the BitTorrent protocol.





8. ENJOY BONDAGE




In its simplest terms, bondage is the use of restraints for pleasure, generally sexual pleasure. It does not have to, but can, include spanking, ball gags, controlled pain, role-playing, submission (and dominance), and a laundry list of toys, furniture, and other accoutrements dedicated to the craft. Bondage is not for everyone, but it’s more popular than you’d think. About two-thirds of women and half of men fantasize about being dominated. If you’re thinking of tossing a few ropes or a set of handcuffs onto your bed to see what might happen, here are a few tips to get you started.





SAFETY FIRST


Bondage, like a lot of sexual play, often features a healthy bit of role-playing. The one being restrained might be expected to beg for release and might be pretty convincing about it. To help all participants feel good about this, establish a safe word before you start.

This word should be something that wouldn’t normally come up during conversation—especially as part of the kind of talking that goes on during bondage. When anyone says it, the bondage has to end immediately, and those who are bound must be released. If you violate that trust, you may find it harder to find some play in the future.





START SLOW


Don’t jump straight into full leather bodysuits covered with zippers over every orifice and D-rings for restraint clips. Go easy and see how you like it. Start tying each other up with bandanas and work your way up to ropes and handcuffs later on.





BUILD TRUST


Find a partner you think you can trust and then build that trust over time. Bondage is supposed to be fun, so pick someone who you think you can have that kind of fun with, and then take your time to find out if you’re right.





AFTERCARE


Even if everything went off without a hitch, it’s still good to check in once the ropes have been put away and playtime is over.

Make sure everyone has an opportunity to talk about what they liked and didn’t like about the session in an open and judgment-free setting.





9. BEAT A SPEED CAMERA




Every year, millions of people get fined for speeding. This puts points on their licenses and increases their car insurance. Fortunately, there are several ways to beat them.





OBSCURE YOUR PLATE


Simply taping over or removing your license plates all together would certainly prevent a speed camera from catching you, but it’s very illegal. There are options, however, that keep your plate visible to law enforcement but make it difficult for a camera to capture it.

Many speed cameras use a high-powered flash. Reflective sprays, tapes, and license plate covers work by bouncing the flash back to the camera, making the license plate impossible to decipher.





STAY ONE STEP AHEAD OF THE CAMERA


Invest in one of the many red-light and speed-camera detectors on the market. Powered by a cigar lighter, they sit on your dashboard and make timely announcements such as “camera ahead limit 60.” This gives you plenty of time to slow down and drive like a model citizen.

Apps like Waze and Radarbot are also an excellent option. When another user spots a speed camera, she can warn other users to slow down when they’re in the vicinity or choose an alternate route.

A popular myth states that the camera won’t catch you if you’re going fast enough. Unfortunately, it’s just that: a myth. Older cameras might lose you above 170 mph, but modern cameras have no trouble snapping photos at speeds no normal automobile could ever reach.





BEATING THE TICKET


If you do get caught speeding, you can still beat the ticket. When the speeding fine arrives in the mail, fire back a letter saying you need to see photo proof, because you can’t establish who was driving. If cops can’t identify who was behind the wheel, they can’t make you pay.

Just like the speed detectors police officers use, speed cameras need to be calibrated regularly to ensure they’re accurate. Request the date of the last calibration for the camera that allegedly caught you speeding. If it’s outside the window, you might be able to get the ticket thrown out.

Finally, if you really want to beat the system, here’s a radical idea you may not have tried yet: Don’t drive faster than the speed limit.





10. BECOME A MAFIA BOSS




Just as you would be unwise to attempt to hang someone upside down and carve them till they bleed without first locating a sturdy ceiling beam, you’d be absolutely crazy to consider founding your own Mafia dynasty until you own a string of casinos and brothels and are deeply involved in money laundering, extortion, and drugs.

Since the only people who are in that position are already Mafia dons, it raises the question, “Which came first: the chicken or the cement shoes?” In short, the only way to become the next John Gotti is to work your way up from the bottom of a prominent crime family.

If you do choose a life of crime, remember that the Mafia is not just about guns, money, decapitating horses, and killing people. Being part of the Mafia is a big responsibility to take on. You have to earn trust and respect.





LOCATION, LOCATION, LOCATION


As a member of a criminal fraternity, you will be expected to travel, but you should pick one of these three cities as your base:





Las Vegas


Sin City is the gambling center of the world. A crackdown on organized crime by law enforcement in the late nineties means that other criminal gangs apart from the Mafia have risen to prominence, so you’ve got even more chance of getting wasted by your rivals. However, with hot summers, mild winters, and abundant year-round sunshine, few places can match up.





New York


It’s got great restaurants and theater and is home to the big five US crime families: Bonanno, Colombo, Genovese, Gambino, and Lucchese. If you seek the authentic The Godfather meets The Sopranos experience, this is the place to go.





Chicago


The family in the Windy City, generally known as the “Outfit,” has ruled organized crime in the city since the end of Prohibition. It is home to Al Capone, one of the most famous gangsters who ever lived, and is the single greatest symbol of the collapse of law and order in the United States during the 1920s.





WORK YOUR WAY UP THROUGH THE RANKS


Start with petty theft, stealing cars, and dealing drugs, or consider going digital with identity theft or cryptocurrency scams. Your criminal activities will soon attract the attention of the local gang leader, who—after a nerve-wracking interview—will invite you to take over the local numbers racket to show you mean business.

Your Mafia resume should include these essential skills:

Aggressive driving

Bat swinging

Menacing glare

Unwavering loyalty

Following instructions

Advanced knowledge of knots

Mediterranean-style greeting (three cheek kisses)





DETHRONE THE BOSS


Now that you’ve proven yourself to be a trustworthy goon, it’s time to usurp your predecessor and take your rightful place as the head of the family.



The easiest and safest way is to wait for him to die of natural causes. After all, he’s got a lot of stress in his life (fending off threats to his territory, on the lookout for overly ambitious subordinates). Give it a little time; he’s definitely in heart attack territory.





11. SURVIVE AN ALIEN ABDUCTION




You’re driving your pickup truck along a deserted road on a clear and still night, when suddenly you see a blinding light in front of you. Your car dies as several gray aliens start gliding toward you. What should you do?





DON’T STRUGGLE AND DON’T PANIC


Research has shown that 74 percent of potential alien abductees who panic end up scrambling up steep muddy inclines or running through impenetrable forests, only to be zapped unconscious and dragged onto the ship.

If your new alien friends possess the technology to cross the galaxy, they’ll be able to handle your feeble attempts to escape. So resist the urge to fight back and instead try your best to make peace with your fate.





CHECK YOUR HUMAN CUSTOMS AT THE DOOR


Shaking hands, bowing, waving, or even hugging are all acceptable greetings on Earth. For all you know, though, when it comes to aliens, something as benign as a thumbs-up could start an interstellar war.

Luckily, you’ve got some time to study your captors and adopt their mannerisms. Hopefully they’re humanoid, and you’ll be able to mirror their behavior with relative ease. If you’re dealing with aliens drastically different from your own physique, then you’ll have to settle for your best approximation of a four-handed salute.





GO WITH THE FLOW


Face it, the aliens possess vastly superior intelligence and technology. So whatever they abducted you for, it’s going to happen—whether you like it or not.

If you fight the aliens tooth and nail over every fluid sample, it’s going to take twice as long and be three times as painful. Instead, close your eyes and try to transport your mind to a quiet, relaxing place—like a beach or the woods. It won’t stop them from poking and probing you, but it will make it easier.





12. RUN A PYRAMID SCHEME




Pyramid schemes are “get-rich-quick” clubs that offer members a large return on their investment, so long as they are able to recruit new members. However, these schemes quickly collapse, and only those at the top make money. So why not be the one at the top? Here’s how.





DON’T REINVENT THE WHEEL


If you’ve ever had a friend reach out on Facebook to try to sell you makeup, energy drinks, or candles, there’s a good chance that you’ve already come face-to-face with a pyramid scheme. Although they prefer the term “multilevel marketing,” companies like Mary Kay, Tupperware, and Avon are about as close to a pyramid scheme as you can get.





IF IT AIN’T BROKE, DON’T FIX IT


When you’re trying to decide which multilevel marketing scheme to hitch your wagon to, stick to consumable products that everybody understands and needs. This will make it easier to recruit a sales team to do all your dirty work.





FOCUS ON RECRUITING


A lot of direct sellers get bogged down hustling to sell product, but from day one, it’s a waste of time. The real money is in recruiting a team of people below you (a downline) to do the hustling. Why? Because for every $1 of product they sell, you get a percentage.

Multilevel marketing companies often set minimum sales goals in order to stay with the program, and this is the only number that matters from a sales perspective. Sell the minimum, and spend the rest of your time recruiting people below you.





KEEP YOUR TEAM MOTIVATED


Even though you’re not really out peddling whatever garbage your lackeys are, you need to make them think you are to keep them engaged. Because if they’re not selling, you’re not earning.

Each month, spend a day staging photos and short videos of you “hitting the pavement” that you can share on social media or directly with your team.





SELL AN IMAGE, NOT A PRODUCT


When it comes to pyramid schemes, the product you’re really selling isn’t a candle or an energy drink. It’s the promise of wealth and freedom. Nobody is going to sign up underneath you unless they want to be you someday.

Everything you wear and carry needs to be expensive and fashionable, from your clothes to your phone to your jewelry. If you can’t afford it, there’s no shame in buying high-end gear when you’re recruiting and returning it at the end of the day.





ENJOY THE RIDE WHILE IT LASTS


Eventually, your downline will catch on and realize they’re doing all the work and you’re reaping all the benefits. A few will try to emulate you with their own team, but most will simply give up and move on to something else.

Eventually, the passive income will dry up and you’ll be forced to start the process over or (gasp) find a real job. Keep in mind that only about 25 percent of people who join multilevel marketing companies make any profit. Of those, roughly half earn less than $5,000 annually.





13. VENTURE INTO MAYAN RUINS


If you’ve ever seen an Indiana Jones film, you know that these ancient structures are extremely dangerous places. Besides the fact that most of these ruins are archaeological sites with very limited access, the ramifications for daring to enter such ancient grounds could be deadly. Seeing as how the cause of the collapse of the Mayan culture is still heavily debated—there’s a chance that the temples and other ruins are haunted. Angry spirits and deadly monsters are just as legitimate of a reason for the civilization’s abrupt disappearance as an ecological disaster or foreign invasion, right?





WHERE TO GO


The Maya civilization extended from present-day southern Mexico down to El Salvador and Honduras. Your best bet if you dare to go wandering around the ancient cities is to head off to Belize. Fly into the capital city of Belmopan and then head toward the Guatemalan border. Pay a local to lead you through the Petén rainforest and off the beaten path from the Tikal National Park to some lesser-visited ruins of Caracol. You want to find some ancient remnants that aren’t roped off and under constant watch.





WHAT YOU’LL FIND


Assuming you survived the rainforest trek, you will now be able to wander through the remnants of one of the largest Mayan kingdoms. Caracol contains all the staples of Maya civilization—palaces, temples, sculptures, terraces—and you should be able to locate a number of the society’s typical constructions.

Try to find an observatory (usually round buildings). The Maya built observatories in order to validate their theories about time as well as celestial bodies and events. In fact, the Mayan calendar, based on astronomical observations, is the basis for many of the (now debunked) apocalyptic 2012 myths. As far as treasure goes, unfortunately, most of the popular Mayan sites have already been picked clean. If you want to go home with more than just tales of your adventure, you’re going to need to go off the beaten path.





DISCOVER NEW RUINS (AND TREASURE)


If you think all of the Mayan ruins have already been discovered, think again. In 2018, researchers used laser technology to uncover as many as sixty thousand new ruins underneath the dense canopy of Guatemala’s vast rainforest.

With enough searching in Mexico, Guatemala, Belize, Honduras, and El Salvador, you could uncover a previously undiscovered ruin containing small carvings, ceremonial clothing, ancient gold coins, or even a priceless jade mask like the one researchers discovered beneath El Perú-Waka' in 2017.





14. FIND ATLANTIS


In 370 B.C.E., the Greek philosopher Plato wrote about the lost island of Atlantis in two books, Timaeus and Critias. He didn’t invent the idea, though; he drew upon the writings of the Greek ruler Solon, who preceded him by two hundred years.

Plato reckoned that the once-prosperous island of Atlantis had disappeared under the sea nine thousand years earlier. Before its destruction, he claimed that it had been a powerful state that ruled parts of Europe and Africa, but the greed of the inhabitants angered the god Zeus, who punished them with violent earthquakes and floods. Scholars have argued that Plato got the dates wrong by mistranslating Solon, and that Atlantis was in fact the Minoan island of Santorini, heavily damaged by a volcanic eruption in 1470 B.C.E.





BIMINI ROAD


One of the more implausible Atlantean theories centers on the Bimini Road in the Bahamas, where in the early twentieth century, the psychic Edgar Cayce claimed sunken stone formations were a sunken harbor. Cayce and his followers believed themselves to be reincarnated Atlanteans, so that further explains his argument against the fact that these formations are naturally occurring beach rock, which have been carbon dated to between two thousand and four thousand years old. As absurd reasons for visiting beautiful places go, you can’t get a better one than this.





CUBA


In 2001, a Canadian team of oceanographers placed Atlantis off the coast of Cuba. They discovered strange geometrical formations of rocks spread over eight square miles and nearly half a mile deep, along with an extinct volcano and fault lines. They say that the complex was above sea level until an earthquake made it vanish eight thousand years ago. The idea that Atlantis may not have been a real civilization is not a new one, by any stretch of the imagination. According to the Greek historian Strabo, Aristotle believed that his teacher Plato had invented the island as a metaphor to teach philosophy.

In 2014, the United States reestablished diplomatic relations with the communist country, but the relationship is tenuous. You might want to check it out before the situation changes.





TAKE YOUR PICK


Other possible locations are off the coast of Cyprus in the Mediterranean Sea, near Indonesia, near Puerto Rico, Sardinia, Finland, the Black Sea, and Turkey.

So basically, pick your vacation destination and you’ll be bound to find a local site that claims to be the true Atlantis. Fortunately for you, Man from Atlantis, the short-lived science fiction TV series that ran for just thirteen episodes between 1977 and 1978, is much easier to track down.





15. SURVIVE A PLANE CRASH




Your odds of not dying in a plane crash are already incredibly high. The White House National Security Council estimates the likelihood of dying in a plane crash at just 1 in 205,552 over the course of a lifetime. By comparison, automobiles offer a stomach-turning 1 in 102 lifetime risk of death.

That said, there’s no harm in taking steps to increase the odds of survival…just in case.





BE CAREFUL WHAT YOU WEAR


The ideal travel attire to reduce the risk of death or injury is made of cotton, wool, or other natural fibers. Man-made fibers can melt onto your skin in a fire, causing injury and decreasing mobility when you need it most.

Loose-fitting garments can become caught on debris in the event of a crash. Avoid sweaters, scarves, or anything else that might impede your ability to exit the aircraft.





HAVE AN ESCAPE PLAN


Pay attention to the safety instructions at the start of the flight. Count how many rows of seats there are between you and the nearest exit so that you can find your way in the dark (or in smoke) by touch alone. Statistically, the safest seats are in the rear, where survival rates are 69 percent, as opposed to 56 percent over the wing and 49 percent at the front of the plane.





SURVIVE THE IMPACT


Pull the seat belt as tight as possible and adopt the brace position—place your head over your knees, hold onto your calves, and get your upper body as low down as possible. It reduces whiplash and stops you from flying forward and hitting the seat in front of you.

Place your feet flat on the floor, farther back than your knees, and wedge something soft under the seat in front to act as a cushion (lots of people break their legs below the knee on impact).





RELEASE THE SEAT BELT


Flick away; don’t press. Many people waste precious time trying to unlock their seat belt the wrong way. They are used to the push-button release used in cars, and under pressure they revert to this pressing action when they should be unclasping the buckle by flicking the latch away from them.





DON’T INHALE SMOKE


Hold your breath or wrap a wet handkerchief around your mouth and nose to filter out some of the smoke (better still, pack a smoke hood in your carry-on). Just a few breaths of toxic smoke can render you unconscious. If you get your eyes and nose at floor level, you will avoid the smoke but risk getting trampled by other passengers. Keep in mind, cabin floor lights are red but turn green at the exits.





LISTEN FOR INSTRUCTIONS, BUT DON’T WAIT FOR THEM


Pay attention to instructions from the flight attendants, but if none are forthcoming, don’t sit there doing nothing. Those around you may be in shock and will just sit as if stuck in their seats, while others panic and block the exits within seconds.

Don’t wait. Get moving and calmly head for the nearest exit. Get yourself out.





16. BECOME A MERCENARY




The perpetual war on terror has been in full swing for nearly two decades, so it’s easy to see why soldiers are in high demand—and not just by the governments of the world.

Private military contractors (PMCs) fill a real need for extra bodies to take part in various clandestine actions or to act as bodyguards or security professionals in dangerous parts of the world.

But not everyone is qualified to be a soldier of fortune.





GET QUALIFIED


Training with BB guns at Cub Scout camp isn’t going to cut it. You need to learn some serious skills, and it’s best if you’ve actually had the experience of putting those skills to use. No one wants to work with an amateur who can get the whole crew killed.

The most desirable, and highest-paid, mercenaries have some level of previous military experience. It may seem a bit extreme to enlist in the armed forces just to pad your resume, but there’s simply no better way to get the training you’ll need in order to become a hired gun. If you can get into the special forces, even better. The PMCs pay top dollar for people with such qualifications.





TRAIN UP AND DON’T DIE


Remember, your goal is to learn as much as you can during basic training and once you’re deployed—not to be a hero and rise to the top ranks in the military. So train hard, stay alert, and keep your head down. You can’t become a mercenary if you don’t live long enough to get discharged from the military.

Once you feel you’ve learned everything you need to know for your mercenary life, make a play for an honorable discharge to get out early. Medical conditions (both mental and physical) are your best bet, so start debating which of your pinkies you’d miss the least.





NETWORK


If you’re in the military, pay attention to what the soldiers around you do when they leave. After leaving the armed forces, transitioning to work as a PMC is a very common career path for former military personnel, so tell them to give you a call when they get set up so they can let you know if life as a PMC is really for you.

Keep in touch with them after you leave the service and make it clear that you’re ready, willing, and able to take on any and all opportunities that become available. You want to be in the front of their minds when there’s an opening.

Remember also that being a mercenary pays. Security contractors often make between $500 and $1,500 a day for their services, and some specialties can be even more lucrative. Interrogators, for example, can earn more than $14,000 a week.





DON’T JOIN JUST ANY COMPANY


If you join a top PMC, you’ll wind up with other professionals who have your back. If you have few-to-no qualifications and find someone who will hire you, you’ll find yourself with a bunch of yahoos just as unqualified as you. Do you want to have to depend on these people in a firefight?





17. SURVIVE A DISASTER




It seems every day there’s another tornado, tsunami, earthquake, or hurricane happening somewhere on Earth. Throw in mass shootings and terrorist attacks and it’s a wonder that anybody even leaves their house. These days, it pays to be prepared.





YOU CAN’T BEAT A GOOD BOB


When disaster strikes, you may only have a few seconds to gather your things and head for safety. You simply won’t have the time to grab the things you’ll need from every corner of your house. That’s why it’s crucial that you prepare a bug-out bag (BOB) in advance.

While you could purchase a premade BOB, it’s best to pack one yourself that’s tailored to your own needs. At minimum, it should contain:

Sleeping bag

Waterproof poncho

Paracord

Knife

Warm clothing

Bandana

Towel

Mess kit (pot, camping stove, spork)

Dehydrated meals

Water bottle

Water filter

Bottled water

Headlamp

Flashlight

Walkie-talkie



Also, if you have the money and the time, then a fallout shelter stocked with adequate supplies could keep you safe for months or even years after a disaster.





GET TO SAFETY


Once you’ve got your supplies, you need to ensure you’re alive long enough to use them. What you do next will depend on the nature of the disaster you’re trying to survive.





Earthquake


During an earthquake, the safest place to be is often right where you are. If you’re indoors, get under a sturdy table to protect yourself from falling debris. If you were sleeping, cover your head with a pillow and don’t try to get out of bed. Don’t try to run inside if you’re outdoors when the earthquake starts. Instead, head for a clearing away from any tall buildings or trees.





Tornado


Go straight for the basement, and stay put until you get the all clear over the radio. If you don’t have a basement (or can’t make it there in time), then any windowless room in your house will make a decent shelter—particularly the bathroom.





Flash Flood


Head for the hills, literally. The higher you can get, the better. Whatever you do, don’t make the mistake of thinking you are safe inside your car. It only takes a foot of fast-moving water to turn your car into a floating death trap.





Active Shooting


Your first inclination may be to run, but if you don’t know where the shooter is, you might run straight into him. Instead, shelter in place and barricade the door with anything heavy you can find.





Wildfire


Head upwind and downhill from the flames, and look for areas clear of combustible material (like brush and trees). If possible, put a body of water like a pond or a river between you and the fire. If you find yourself trapped at home, fill your bathtubs and sinks with water and stay away from the walls.





18. DISAPPEAR


Sometimes you just have to get away. Perhaps you robbed a bank. Maybe you need to leave your spouse. Or possibly your stint in the witness protection program has come to an untimely end. No matter what, you need to get away. Fast.





ESCAPE TO THE WILDERNESS


As nice as it would be to just hole away in your apartment and hope the world forgets about you, that’s just not how these things work. If you don’t want to be found, hiding out in the wilderness might be your best option.





Start a Thru-Hike


If you’re in relatively good shape and can fit all of your earthly belongings into a large bag, there are thousands of miles of trails in the United States to get lost on. With the right gear and enough cash to restock your provisions from time to time, you can remain under the radar indefinitely.



One fringe benefit of going the hiking route is you’ll literally disappear—or at least parts of you will. Thru-hikers on the Appalachian Trail lose an average of thirty pounds during the 165 days it takes to hike its full 2,200-mile length.





Hunker Down in the Styx


For those who enjoy small creature comforts (like walls) and have the skills and resources to maintain their own hut, you can’t get more off-the-grid than living as a hermit. With enough planning and equipment, you can build your own living space, hunt and grow your own food, compost your own waste, and take care of all your own needs until the heat dies down.





CREATE A NEW IDENTITY


If the wilderness isn’t your thing, you can hide in plain sight by faking your own death and starting from scratch with a fresh new identity. Fake passports, birth certificates, social security cards, etc. don’t come cheap though, so make sure to clear out your bank accounts first before you draft your suicide note.

Just realize you will need to cut ties with everybody you ever loved and cared about. The good news is you’ll also get to cut ties with everybody you ever hated and couldn’t stand.





JUST KEEP RUNNING


If you’re one of the unlucky few who couldn’t shed their existing identity if their life depended on it (which it does, by the way), your only alternative is a life of constant movement.





19. BECOME A PORN STAR


They say that if you get a job doing what you love, you won’t work a day in your life. Since nobody’s going to pay you to sit around eating pizza, why not do the next best thing and get paid to have sex?





ARE YOU CUT OUT FOR THE JOB?


There’s a lot more to porn than just showing up on set, having sex for an hour, and cashing a check.

A film that’s approximately thirty minutes long may require several hours of filming to get enough footage. The director will need to start and stop repeatedly to adjust things like lighting and makeup. So if you can’t get yourself ready to go at a moment’s notice, you might want to consider another profession.

You may also be called upon to do things that simply don’t interest you in your private sex life. If you can’t stomach bondage, anal, threesomes, or role-playing, then you should probably head for the hills; that’s just the tip of the iceberg.





STAMINA IS PARAMOUNT


There’s a market for every body type imaginable, but no matter your niche, you’ll need to be in relatively good shape. Porn stars are known for contorting themselves into positions that no normal human would ever attempt. So flexibility and core body strength are critical.





KNOW YOUR LIMITS


You can decide what you will and won’t do, but there are financial incentives to pushing the boundaries of your comfort zone. Porn that covers obscure fetishes can be difficult to find, and consumers will pay a premium for it. Also, keep in mind that if your list of won’t-dos is extensive, you might have trouble finding work. The best way to have full control over your projects is to hire your own film crew and photographer. This is expensive, but the upside of running the show yourself is that you get a bigger slice of the royalties, rather than a one-off flat fee.





CAMMING


On paper, setting up a webcam and streaming content to fans from the comfort of your own home (a.k.a. camming) seems like the best way to turn your sexuality into cold, hard cash. You work when and how you want, and you don’t have to include anyone else in your streams. No directors, no videographers, and no additional talent (unless you want there to be). Just you, a stationary camera, and your fans. There are some downsides, however. The competition is fierce, and it can be difficult to make a name for yourself and attract a following. You also won’t earn very much from the cam shows themselves; the real money is in creating personalized videos for your most devoted fans.





20. NEGOTIATE WITH KIDNAPPERS




Governments always say: “Don’t negotiate with kidnappers. To do so would only invite more.” Which is easy enough to say when you’re speaking hypothetically. But when the person in danger is someone you love, most people would do anything and everything to get them back—government policies be damned.





ESTABLISH PROOF OF LIFE


Proof of life isn’t just the name of a terrible Russell Crowe movie, it’s an important concept in kidnapping negotiation. After all, there’s no sense in negotiating if the victim is already dead.

Insist on speaking with the victim and ask them a simple question that only they could possibly know. It could be the name of a family pet or cherished childhood toy. If they can’t (or won’t) answer, it’s possible the person you’re speaking to isn’t your family member at all.





PAY FIRST, ASK QUESTIONS LATER


The United States has a strict policy against negotiating with kidnappers. Spain, on the other hand, takes the approach of recovering the victim at all costs. Care to guess which country recovers living kidnapping victims with greater frequency? Hint: It’s not the United States.

If you pay the ransom, your loved one is four times more likely to be returned unharmed. So whether they want a large suitcase full of cash or backstage passes to see Taylor Swift, do whatever you can to meet their demands.





HUMANIZE THE VICTIM


To you, the kidnapping victim may be a son, daughter, brother, father, cousin, or aunt. Someone close, whose life has meaning and purpose. To the kidnappers, however, the victim is just another payday. When you speak to the kidnappers, you want to do your best to bridge that gap.

Use the victim’s name whenever possible instead of relying on pronouns like she/her or he/him.

Request that the victim be given food, water, and a chance to relieve him- or herself as a gesture of good faith.

Talk to the kidnappers about the victim; it doesn’t matter about what, just as long as they see the victim as a real person.





IDENTIFY THE LOCATION


Try to identify the general whereabouts of the hostage. Obviously, if you knew the precise location, you could send in your own crack team of privately hired ex–special forces, but if you know at least which city or country is holding them, you can then make approaches to influential figures around the city or area.





Never Stray from the Resort


Don’t want to get kidnapped? Don’t travel in Mexico. While only around 1,200 kidnappings are recorded each year, it’s estimated that as many as 99 percent of kidnappings go unreported. There are other countries that are dangerous as well, but from the point of view of kidnapping, Mexico leads the pack.





21. CLIMB THE PYRAMIDS


The three great pyramids of Giza are located on the Giza Plateau a few miles southwest of Cairo, in Egypt. Climbing them is illegal since it damages the stones and the 51-degree incline is very steep; many people have been killed in the attempt.





AN IRRESISTIBLE CHALLENGE


When the pyramids were built, they were surfaced with highly polished white limestone casing stones to create a dazzling smooth surface. Over the centuries, most of these stones have been either eroded or stolen to expose the stair-like structure that now beckons intrepid climbers.





BRIBE THE GUARDS


A daytime ascent is not suggested because you would simply be caught and arrested by the guards. You must sneak into the compound under the cover of darkness, at about 3 a.m. Guards with dogs still patrol the perimeter of the complex, but if caught you may be able to bribe them.

Make your way to the north face of the pyramids, which are in relative darkness (the sides that face Cairo are illuminated with spotlights). Menkaure is the smallest and easiest pyramid to climb, and it is also the farthest away from the entrance, but at 204 feet, it is less than half the height of the others. You won’t be able to reach the very top of the middle pyramid, Khafre, because it still has casing stones at the summit, but Khufu, the real challenge, is there for the taking.





PYRAMID OF KHUFU


Khufu is the oldest and tallest of the pyramids and the only surviving member of the Seven Wonders of the Ancient World. It was completed in 2560 B.C.E. and remained the tallest man-made structure in the world for more than 3,800 years (until the construction of the spire of Lincoln Cathedral in Great Britain in C.E. 1300). It was 480 feet high, but with erosion it now stands about 455 feet tall. The record ascent and descent time was achieved by an Egyptian guide who could climb up and down in less than seven minutes. He used to perform this feat for visiting dignitaries at the command of President Nasser.





ENJOY THE VIEW


When you reach the summit, you will enjoy a spectacular view of Cairo and the desert and can ponder the people who have stood at the same vantage point. In 1798, just before the Battle of the Pyramids, Napoleon Bonaparte is said to have observed, “From atop these pyramids, forty centuries look down upon you.” Soak it up—you will probably fall and break your neck during the treacherous descent.

On the other hand, if you make it safely down, you’re not off the hook. In 2016, an eighteen-year-old German tourist named Andrej Ciesielski scaled the great pyramid of Giza in broad daylight. After a video of his stunt went viral, he was banned from Egypt for life.





22. FIND THE ARK OF THE COVENANT




The Ark of the Covenant is the wooden box that housed Aaron’s rod, some manna (the miracle food that kept the Israelites alive during their flight from Egypt), and the sacred Tablets of Stone with the Ten Commandments that Moses brought down from Mount Sinai.





MAGIC BOX


The Ark was a powerful talisman for the Israelites, who carried it around with them in the wilderness, and into battle, borne by Levite priests, 2,000 cubits (about half a mile) in front of them. Its magical powers helped to part the Red Sea, and it was carried around the walls of Jericho seven times before the walls eventually crumbled at the sound of a ram’s horns. Whenever the Ark was carried, it was always wrapped in tachash skins (dyed leather) and a blue cloth.





WHERE WAS IT LAST SEEN?


As your mother will tell you, the best way to find something is to work out when it was last seen, which in the case of the Ark was 2,500 years ago. We know that it was housed in the First Temple by Solomon around 950 B.C.E. Later it is mentioned in the Old Testament in 2 Chronicles 35:3, when King Josiah (who ruled in the seventh century C.E.) instructed the Levites: “Put the holy ark in the house that Solomon the son of David, king of Israel, built. You need not carry it on your shoulders.” Scholars don’t know whether the Levites followed his instructions, although if they’d been carrying it around for 350 years, they must have been glad to rest.

Possible Hiding Places

Nebuchadnezzar destroyed the temple in 586 B.C.E., so if the Ark was there, it could also have been destroyed or taken to Babylon (although it isn’t mentioned in the book of Jeremiah with all the other spoils). Babylon is in present-day Iraq about fifty-five miles south of Baghdad.

Jeremiah hid it on Mount Nebo shortly before the Babylonian attack, or possibly in one of the many caves in the area where the Dead Sea Scrolls were found.

According to biblical scholar Leen Ritmeyer, there’s a rectangular hollow carved out in the bedrock of the Muslim Dome of the Rock shrine in Jerusalem, with exactly the same dimensions as the Ark. He believes this is the site of the Second Temple. The hollow is empty, which indicates that the Ark could well be in Ritmeyer’s garage. However, there is also a complex system of secret chambers underneath the shrine, but the Supreme Muslim Council hasn’t allowed any excavations on the site and many scholars believe that the Ark was never placed in the Second Temple at all.

Another candidate is the Church of St. Mary of Zion in Aksum, Ethiopia. The Ethiopian Orthodox Church claims to have possessed the Ark of the Covenant since the early Middle Ages. It is guarded by a large group of bouncer monks with instructions to kill all intruders who attempt to enter the Holy of Holies where the Ark is kept. Only one monk is allowed access to the Ark, and, once appointed, he spends the rest of his life in the Holy of Holies—never to be allowed out again.





23. HUNT A YETI IN THE HIMALAYAS




The Himalayas are the highest range of mountains in the world. The “roof of the world” is home to Mount Everest and the yeti, which most people agree is a giant hairy bipedal ape. If you want to find the yeti, wrap up warm and start climbing.





DHAULAGIRI


Dhaulagiri, the world’s seventh-highest mountain, is a hotbed of yeti sightings. Japan’s most famous yeti hunter, Yoshiteru Takahashi, claims to have found a yeti cave here, but his camera froze before he could take a picture. However, on subsequent expeditions to the area, he claims to have photographed footprints using nine motion-sensitive cameras.





FRIEND OR FOE


In most encounters the yeti has run away, so it would probably flee, unless it was cornered or very hungry. Run-ins with the yeti have been both hostile and friendly. A Sherpa girl was dragged off by the yeti, who released her after she screamed and then killed two of her yaks; by contrast, in 1938, Captain d’Auvergne, the curator of the Victoria Memorial in Kolkata, India, reported that he was cared for by a nine-foot-tall yeti after becoming snow blind.





APE WITH ALTITUDE


Most sightings of the yeti have occurred at altitudes between 15,000 and 20,000 feet. Sightings have been reported since the early nineteenth century, but the first reliable one took place in 1925. Greek photographer N.A. Tombazi spotted one about three hundred yards away at an altitude of 15,000 feet. He described a “figure in outline…exactly like a human being” that “showed up dark against the snow.” The creature disappeared, but Tombazi discovered fifteen footprints in the snow measuring seven inches by four inches with five toes.

In 1951, footprints eighteen inches long and thirteen inches wide were photographed on the southwestern slopes of the Menlung Glacier, between Tibet and Nepal at an altitude of 20,000 feet.

Your best chances of a sighting are at these high altitudes, where the landscape is most remote and undisturbed by people.

Many cryptozoology experts believe that the bigfoot, yeti, and Sasquatch are all the same animal. The most popular contender is the Gigantopithecus, a ten-foot tall ape resembling an orangutan that is believed to be extinct.





24. CLAIM POLITICAL ASYLUM




Have you ever woken up and thought to yourself, “Hmm, I wonder if my government is going to murder or imprison me today for no justifiable reason?” If you had to think for more than a half a second when answering that question, it might be time to find a new home.





DETERMINE YOUR ELIGIBILITY


While the laws governing asylum are different from country to country, in order to claim asylum successfully, you must prove that you are unable to return to your home country (or your main country of residence if you are stateless), because you fear persecution there under protected grounds, which generally includes:

Race

Nationality

Political affiliation

Religion

Sexual orientation

Membership and/or participation in any particular social group or social activities





FOLLOW THE PROCESS


Requesting political asylum is not as simple as telling the border agent how much your side of the imaginary line sucks and asking if it’s cool if you hang out on his side for a few years.

Regardless of whether you entered legally or illegally, most countries will require that you are physically in the country (or at least at the border) before you can apply.

You will need to file the necessary paperwork within a certain time frame from when you entered the country (in the US, it’s one year).

You may need to submit proof that you are being persecuted as part of the application process.

Having a lawyer can greatly improve your odds of being granted asylum. If you can’t afford one, many nonprofit groups offer legal advice for asylum seekers.





BENEFITS YOU’LL RECEIVE


Regardless of the form of oppression you’re fleeing, you likely won’t have the luxury of being choosy; your primary criterion for asylum is likely going to be proximity. So as with most things associated with political asylum, how you’re treated once you’ve applied will vary drastically depending on where you do it. In most cases though, you can expect to receive:

A stipend for food, clothes, and toiletries (often less than $50 a week per person)

Housing (ranging from hotels to detention centers—and everything in between)

Access to public schooling for your children

Free or reduced-cost healthcare





BE ATTENTIVE (AND PATIENT)


While you wait for a decision on your application, it’s imperative that you respond promptly to every request for documentation that you receive. You may also be called in for extensive interviews throughout the process, so make sure you’re always available when necessary.

If you’re lucky, the process will take a few months. In some cases, however, it can drag on for years. Regardless of how long it takes, though, do your best to keep a positive attitude throughout. Nobody likes being in limbo, but it certainly beats being in constant fear for your life. Amnesty International estimates that there are 22.5 million displaced refugees who have been given asylum, with an additional 1.2 million refugees waiting for asylum.





25. AMPUTATE A LIMB


It’s one of the most horrific things to think about—losing a part of your own body—but it’s better to cut loose a piece if it means a chance to save the rest of you. Some people have even managed to do this to themselves when necessary.

This is, of course, a last resort, often only employed if a part of the body is trapped and unable to be freed. Perhaps it’s caught in a burning thresher or crushed under a boulder, leaving you no other way to get free. However, an impromptu amputation in the field is likely to kill you too. Only try this if the alternative is clearly death.

You may remember that James Franco was nominated for an Academy Award for his portrayal of Aron Ralston in the film 127 Hours. Pinned down by a boulder, Ralston spent more than five days trapped in a canyon before amputating his own arm and climbing out unaided. So if you have to do this, there may be a movie deal in your future.





MAKE A TOURNIQUET


If you haven’t already done so, make a tourniquet and place it around the limb that’s about to be lost. This will help deaden the pain of the cutting and also prevent you from bleeding out after the loss of the limb. Place the tourniquet as far down the limb as you can manage so that you can save as much flesh as possible.





USE A SHARP KNIFE


The sharper the blade you can find, the better. Dull knives hurt more and can slip during the procedure.





FIND A SPACE IN THE BONES—OR MAKE ONE


The hardest part of any amputation is getting through the bone. If you have a saw handy, you may be able to cut right through the bone. Otherwise, you may be forced to break it. Place the bone on something firm and use your weight as leverage to snap it.

If this isn’t possible, look for the nearest joint to the damaged area. It’s far easier to cut through cartilage and tendons than through solid bone.





GET MEDICAL HELP


Once you’re free, administer what first aid you can to stop the bleeding and help with the shock. Then get proper medical attention right away.

If possible, bring the amputated limb with you to the hospital (but only if doing so poses no risk to your personal safety). If it’s not been severely damaged, and it’s within a six- to twelve-hour window since the amputation, there’s a possibility it can be reattached.





26. GET HIT BY A CAR AND SURVIVE




Do yourself a favor and do like your momma taught you. Look both ways before you cross the street, and don’t play in traffic. You’ll live a lot longer that way.

If you still find yourself on the wrong side of a fast-moving grill, let’s hope the words in this chapter find enough time to flash through your head before you die. Then you can at least tell Saint Peter you gave it a shot.





WATCH THE ROAD


If you see the car coming, you may have a chance. You only have a split second to anticipate the direction the driver will swerve, and you have little information to guide your decision of which way to dive.

One thing you do know for certain is the direction of oncoming traffic. You’ll want to dive in the opposite direction to avoid an “out of the frying pan, into the fryer” situation.





SEEK COVER


If this is no accident—if someone’s actually trying to hit you with his car—then dive behind something solid. Dumpsters, trees, telephone poles, and parked cars are all viable options (and likely to be close at hand). All but the most determined hit-and-run criminal won’t purposely destroy his car trying to get at you. After all, he can’t pull off the “run” portion of the hit-and-run if his car is totaled.





UP AND OVER


If you cannot get away from the car, for whatever reason, then jump up. Get as high as you can and pull your legs up after you. If you’re channeling your inner NBA superstar—or facing a really short car—you might even be able to clear the top of the vehicle and let it pass under. Chances are, though, that you’ll get at least clipped instead.

Still, bouncing off the top of a car beats having it run over you any day.





ROLL WITH IT


Once you’ve been hit, pull yourself into a ball and cover up your head with your arms if you can. The impact is likely to send you flying, and the better your landing, the better your chance of surviving. If you flail about trying to flap away through the air, you’re only going to break a limb or—worse—your neck.





STAY STILL AND GET HELP


You survived the initial impact, but that doesn’t mean you’re out of the woods yet.

Your body is still in fight-or-flight mode, and the myriad stress hormones coursing through your veins could be masking some very serious injuries.

If you’re in immediate danger of being run over again, gingerly drag yourself out of the middle of the road. Otherwise, try to avoid any sudden movements. If you’ve broken any bones, the jagged edges could cause additional internal injuries.

While you’re resting, comfort yourself with the thought that you’re working with pretty good odds. According to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, pedestrians have roughly a 93 percent survival rate when struck by automobiles.





27. AVOID BOUNTY HUNTERS




If you have a bounty hunter on your tail, it usually means you’re a fugitive from the law, and there’s a substantial price on your head. While it’s hard enough having the law after you, bounty hunters are often more willing to bend the rules to capture you. After all, they’re not worried about getting a conviction; they just want to bring you in.

Here are ten tips to keep them off your tail.

Leave your clothes behind and buy a new set that looks nothing like what you usually wear. Just don’t go overboard. Your ultimate goal is to blend in and avoid detection. A fur coat and diamond-encrusted cane may be a radical new look for you, but it’s probably not the best outfit for flying under the radar.

Do whatever you can to change your facial appearance. If you have facial hair, shave it. If you don’t, grow it. Never caught dead without makeup? Get over yourself and embrace a natural look.

Dye your hair a different color, style it differently, or even shave it off altogether. Stay away from radical colors like pink, green, or anything that isn’t some variation of black, red, brown, or blond.

Ditch your glasses in favor of contacts. If you can already see fine, rock some clear, nonprescription lenses.

Lose some weight or put some on. You’d be surprised how much thirty pounds in either direction can alter your appearance.

Credit and debit cards leave a trail that’s easy to follow. Clean out your bank accounts, max out the cash advances on your credit cards, and skip town. Your credit score will take a hit, but you’ve got bigger fish to fry.

Toss out your smartphone, smartwatch, and anything else that has GPS functionality that might betray your whereabouts. If you must have a phone, pick up a pay-as-you-go nonconnected burner and swap it out for a new one after each use.

Completely abandon any and all social media platforms. If the subject matter in the photos you share doesn’t give you away, the metadata contained in the image files certainly will.

If you’re well known in a particular field, consider a change in vocation. If somebody recognizes you at a conference, your cover is toast.

Avoid public events or any situation where there is going to be a lot of cameras present. The last thing you need is to wind up the next hot meme.



While bounty hunting is legal in most US states, it’s a felony in many other countries (like Mexico). So your best bet for avoiding bounty hunters may be to simply head south of the border.





28. BEAT A LIE DETECTOR TEST




The best way to beat the test is to refuse to take one. If your polygraph is for a criminal investigation, your refusal is generally inadmissible in court. However, some employers will still insist on a polygraph test as part of the hiring process (for example, the US government still requires them for some positions). In this case, your best weapon is the knowledge that these tests are fallible and can be beaten.





AN INEXACT SCIENCE


The term “lie detector” is a bit of a misnomer. We simply don’t have the technology to confirm whether a subject is lying. Instead, the test measures the subject’s level of excitement, and it’s up to the examiner to correlate that excitement with falsehoods.

The American Polygraph Association claims a 90 percent accuracy rating for polygraph tests, but critics insist that number is far lower at around 60 percent. Marginally better than flipping a coin.





HOW THE TEST WORKS


The examiner will ask you three types of questions: irrelevant, relevant, and control. An example of an irrelevant question is “What is your name?” or “What color is your shirt?” A relevant question pertains to the issue in question: “Did you steal the money?” or “Have you ever taken illicit drugs?” These questions will elicit an emotional response, such as raised blood pressure, pulse, sweat response, and breathing, all of which are measured by the polygraph machine. This response will be compared to readings taken when you answer the control questions. These will induce a mild emotional response but aren’t relevant to the investigation, such as “Have you ever lied to your parents?” or “Have you broken the speed limit this week?”

The examiner is looking for response patterns for answers that are known to be true, to compare them to patterns for answers that could be false.





DON’T BE DOMINATED BY THE EXAMINER


The average polygraph test lasts about three hours. The longest part is the pretest interview, during which many people give away important information because they are off their guard. During this period, the examiner will try to convince you that the polygraph cannot be beaten and will try to induce feelings of guilt. Don’t succumb to these tricks.





FAKE YOUR RESPONSES


The key to beating the test isn’t necessarily to get away with lying, but instead to mess up the data and make it impossible to determine one way or the other.

If your emotional response during your answer to “What is your name?” is identical to your response when you answer “Have you ever shoplifted?” the examiner won’t be able to make heads or tails of the data.

There are several ways to do this. At the outset of each question, you can:

Bite your tongue hard to trigger a pain response.

Do math in your head, such as counting backward in threes from a hundred.

Think of something that makes you frightened.

Alter your breathing rate.

Tense your sphincter muscle.





NEVER MAKE A RELEVANT ADMISSION


This may seem obvious, but remember that the machine cannot detect lying, only your physiological responses, so don’t admit to anything. The examiner can only work with what you tell him. When humans process complex thoughts, our internal monologue often elicits subconscious muscle spasms in the larynx. The technology to interpret these subvocalizations is in its infancy, but some experts believe it will lead to lie detectors that can effectively read the minds of subjects.





29. COMMIT IDENTITY FRAUD




Are your bills mounting up? Are collectors and loan sharks constantly knocking on your door? Maybe you just want to run up debts on someone else’s credit cards.





IDENTITY CHANGE: PAPER TRIPPING


Although this method is not without its risks, it is the oldest system of identity theft in existence. Simply wander around a large cemetery until you find the gravestone of a child who was born around the same time as you, but who died in infancy, without a Social Security number, bank account, or other forms of ID. Make sure the child is of the same gender and race as you, then assume the identity of the dead infant. Use the information on the gravestone to obtain a copy of the birth certificate, which you can use to get other vital items of identification. State and local registrars are required by law to make birth and death records public, so you can easily access physical records at government offices.

The danger of this method is that there’s no guarantee that the grave you choose hasn’t already been visited by someone else with the same idea, often a member of the criminal fraternity. This means that your new identity could easily make you one of the FBI’s Ten Most Wanted.





IDENTITY FRAUD PHISHING SCAM


Send off thousands of emails at random saying that a major US bank has gone bankrupt. On the email, include a link to an official-looking website that you have already set up where clients are advised to log in to their accounts to check that they are still in good standing. Once they log in, your decoy website will capture their credentials, so that you can log in as them and steal money from their account. Launder the money by making false employment offers promising a significant income in a very short time for allowing you to transfer a large sum into victims’ accounts, which they must then transfer to (offshore) accounts that you have set up.





30. CREATE CROP CIRCLES




According to some fringe groups, crop circles are messages from aliens or are extraterrestrial landing sites made by “tachyonic energy,” a sort of weird cosmic vibe that creates and maintains order in the chaos of matter. However, the sane among us know that they are created by a group of (often inebriated) friends armed only with rope and some planks of wood.





WHERE DID CROP CIRCLES BEGIN?


Two British artists, Doug Bower and Dave Chorley, started the craze. One summer evening in 1978 after a few pints at the pub, they made their first crop circle on their hands and knees with a four-foot metal bar.





HOW TO MAKE AN ALIEN LANDING STRIP


Choose your location carefully. The best place is a sloped field that can be seen from a road, so that a maximum number of passersby can be freaked out by its unique and mysterious beauty.

Spend a long time planning your design and its execution so that when you get in the field you won’t be faced with an impossible task. A basic design should incorporate an arrangement of discs in a geometric formation. Gather a team of like-minded hoaxers from your local drinking establishment and give everyone a designated area to work on.

Make your crop circle under cover of night during dry conditions, and access the field using an existing farm track. Your basic tool is a piece of wood with a hole drilled at each end and a rope attached through the holes. Hold the rope loop while you flatten the corn forward and down, keeping one foot on the wooden bar.

To make a circle, one person stands in the center holding one end of the rope; a second person holds the other end of the rope to form the radius of the circle and walks around the first person, flattening the corn to create the circumference. Then the wooden plank tool can be used to flatten the area inside the circle. You can also use a small lawn roller, available at most garden centers. To make more complex shapes, make construction lines by laying rope outlines.

When you’ve finished, add some extraterrestrial details such as melted iron filings, which make convincing “meteorite particles,” or scatter some disemboweled cows around the area. Complete your design just before dawn, then you can take a photo of it before all the “croppies” arrive.

While it’s quite illegal to trespass on someone else’s property and stomp all over their crops, the repercussions are usually less than $100.





31. MAKE MOONSHINE




Moonshine, popskull, stumphole, ruckus juice, hillbilly pop, happy Sally: Whatever you want to call it, making illegal alcohol is still one of the most enjoyable ways of breaking the law, evading federal taxes, and losing your eyesight. It takes lots of time and practice before you can whip up an impurity-free batch that won’t do you serious damage. Use it in your lawnmower until you are confident enough to open a speakeasy.





SPROUT THE CORN


“Sprout” five pounds of shelled whole corn to convert the cornstarch into sugar. Put the corn into a container with a slow-drainage hole at the base, cover with warm water, drape a cloth over the mouth, and leave it for three days (or until the sprouts are about two inches long), adding more warm water as required. Dry the sprouts and grind them to make cornmeal (alternatively, buy five pounds of cornmeal and skip this step).





MASH


Make a “mash” by adding twenty gallons of boiling water and twenty pounds of sugar to the cornmeal. When the mash has cooled to “warm,” add one-and-a-half ounces of yeast. Leave in a warm place for about three days to ferment (or until the mash stops bubbling). Now the mash has been converted to carbonic acid and alcohol and is called “sour mash.”





DISTILLATION


Distill the mash by heating it to 173°F in a copper moonshine still. At this temperature, the alcohol (ethanol) rises to the top of the still, and then travels along to the cooling part of the still, where it condenses again and can be collected. It will be a translucent liquid the color of dark beer.





SINGLINGS


The first liquid to condense from the still contains volatile oils and should be discarded. After that, the liquid can be collected into glass jars—this liquid is called the singlings. The liquid collected at the end of the run is called low wine and is only about 10 percent proof, so it can be added to the mash barrel and distilled again. Stop distilling once a tablespoon of low wine thrown on a naked flame refuses to burn.





DISTILL AGAIN AND AGAIN


Empty the mash (it can be added to the next batch of grain). The ethanol collected in the first singlings will have the highest proof, and the proof level drops as the process continues. However, all the singlings will need to be distilled one or two more times to remove impurities. After three distillations, some of your singlings will contain ethanol up to 150 proof (that’s about 75 percent alcohol).

You may be tempted to try for a higher and higher proof. Don’t. The purity ceiling for consumable ethanol is 95.57 percent, or approximately 190 proof. It’s possible to achieve a 200-proof solution by introducing benzene, but the resulting liquid is carcinogenic and unsafe for human consumption.





32. WALK ON HOT COALS




Mind over matter can get you through a number of uncomfortable situations:

Dinner with your in-laws

A prostate exam

Disney on Ice



But no matter your level of spiritual oneness, it just won’t cut it when it comes to chargrilling your feet. After all, when you toss a steak on the barbecue, it cooks regardless of whatever positive thoughts it is entertaining. Fire walking boils down to thermal conductivity and how you rake the coals; it has little to do with how you walk or what you’re thinking.





LEIDENFROST EFFECT


This phenomenon is named for Johann Gottlob Leidenfrost, who described the effect in his manuscript A Tract about Some Qualities of Common Water (1756). The Leidenfrost effect makes it possible for a person to plunge her wet hand briefly into a vat of molten lead without injury, to blow liquid nitrogen from her mouth, and, many believe, to fire walk. Leidenfrost discovered that when a liquid comes into contact with a mass that is much hotter than the liquid’s boiling point, instead of evaporating quickly, a thin layer of vapor forms between the liquid and the hot mass which acts as an insulator, increasing the time it takes to boil. Although there is disagreement about whether this applies to walking on hot coals, those who believe that the Leidenfrost effect comes into play here argue that sweat and normal body moisture on the soles of the feet turn to vapor and protect them from the high temperatures of the coals. Also, many fire walks take place on grass, so it is easy for the feet to pick up further moisture, especially if the grass is wet.





POOR CONDUCTIVITY


The most significant factor is the heat of the coals versus their ability to conduct that heat. Just because a material is red hot does not make it dangerous. For example, the heat-shield tiles on some spacecraft are such poor conductors of thermal energy that you can handle them while they are glowing. Coals burn at approximately 600ºC (1,112ºF), but the surface heat will be absorbed by your feet, especially if the embers are wood, which is a poor conductor. If the coals were replaced with hot metal (an excellent conductor) you could kiss your feet goodbye. Also, the coals cool quickly when they are raked out over a wide area.

In short, so long as you keep up a steady pace, you can use the mantra “hot coals, hot coals, third-degree burns” while you are walking, and you still won’t get so much as a blister.





33. SELL YOUR ORGANS


Selling your organs can be a great way to make some extra money, because one person’s viscera is another person’s vitality. Right now, about 115,000 men, women, and children in America need organ transplants, and about sixteen people die every day because they don’t get one, so it’s practically your duty to off-load some of your innards to pay the bills.





IS IT ETHICAL?


At its heart, ethics is a system of principles that determine right and wrong. Complicating the matter, though, is the fact that there are few (if any) universal truths we can all agree upon.

For example, “murder is wrong.” Sounds simple enough. But what about in cases of self-defense? Or if the person you killed was suffering? Not so cut-and-dried, is it?

In the case of organ donation, selling your organs to the highest bidder seems “wrong.” The “right” thing to do would be to give your organ away for free. But that assumes an act is either good or bad, with no gray area in between—which isn’t how the world works.

If we were to plot it out instead on a scale of 0–100, with 0 being keeping your organs to yourself and 100 being a donation free of charge, collecting a reasonable fee has to be far closer to 100 than 0.





IS IT LEGAL?


In short, no. Almost never. Iran is the only country in the world that allows citizens to buy and sell organs.

On top of that, most organs can only be donated if the donor is declared brain dead. So you’ve got a double whammy of criminality.

Approved Living-Donor Organs

Full kidney

Part of the pancreas

Part of a lung

Part of the intestine

Part of the liver





RECOVERY TIME


When performed in a hospital by an experienced surgeon, a kidney donor can expect to spend two full days in the hospital. Following surgery, it can take between four and six weeks to fully recover.

During that time, mild to moderate pain is common, which can be relieved by taking prescription pain medication (if necessary). Patients are advised to avoid any strenuous activity for eight weeks after surgery and not to lift anything weighing more than ten pounds.

Guess what, though? You aren’t going to get an experienced surgeon or a fancy hospital. You might want to tack on an extra few weeks of recovery time, just to be safe.





34. CON YOUR WAY INTO THE SPACE PROGRAM




If you dream of an exciting career that combines peeing in a bag with floating around a freezing vacuum, look no further than the space program. Aim for the stars! Not all astronauts are geniuses with IQs of 160; some are muscular jet pilots as well. However, some programs are easier to get into than others.





NO HOPE FOR NASA


NASA retired its space shuttle program in 2011, so if you want to escape the Earth’s atmosphere, you’re going to have to try your luck elsewhere.

With the United States out of the picture, that only leaves China and Russia as viable options for manned space flights. While it’s true that citizens of forty countries have technically flown in space, they all did so as passengers on American, Russian, or Chinese spacecraft.





G-FORCE UNIT


In most space programs, before they’ll let you fly a rocket (or rather, grip the steering wheel and let the g-force wreck you while two million tons of volatile propellant explodes under your seat), you either have to be a superfit pilot with a science degree who has clocked more than a thousand hours of experience in charge of a jet airplane or spend a lot of years studying to be a payload specialist (all so you can fool around with a robotic arm, a skill any child can learn on a pick-and-grab machine in the mall). You will also be expected to be cool under pressure and scribble down lots of “gimbal coordinates” like Gary Sinise in Apollo 13. Even then, if you get the sniffles or are found to be too short (below 5'4") or too tall (above 6'3"), you’ll fail the height restriction and go back to flipping burgers. Clearly you need to know an extra trick to bump you to the front of the line.





TRY THE PRIVATE SECTOR


When Elon Musk founded the SpaceX program in 2002, the world scoffed at the idea that a private company could actually beat the nerds at NASA. Nearly two decades—and sixty-eight successful test flights—later, and Elon doesn’t seem so crazy after all. You might not be ready to buy into his dream of colonizing Mars, but if you’ve ever dreamed of driving a Tesla in a space suit, there’s no time like the present to start crafting your resume.





35. GO OVER NIAGARA FALLS IN A BARREL




Around forty people die each year at the hands of Niagara Falls; the majority of those are suicides. Between 1850 and 2011, approximately five thousand bodies were recovered from the base of Niagara Falls. If you are determined to become one of just a handful of people who have gone over the edge and lived to tell the tale, here’s a quick checklist as you make your plans:

Avoid the American Falls as there are too many rocks at the bottom. All successful attempts have been over the Horseshoe Falls.

Despite the success rate, there have been some nasty injuries, such as those of Bobby Leach (the first person to use a steel barrel, way back in 1911). He broke his jaw and both kneecaps and spent six months in the hospital. Can you afford to be out of work for that long?

The main hazard is that the barrel will hit rocks and split open and then you’ll either drown or your body will be smashed by the water and the rocks. Most modern attempts have used materials such as rubber and metal, sometimes both. Experience shows that your barrel should be light and strong. In 1984, Karel Soucek used lightweight wood and plastic, and some ballast in the bottom ensured he descended feet-first. However, if your container is too flimsy, like “the Thing” used by William “Red” Hill Jr. in 1951, it may survive the fall but break apart under the cascade of water. He died. In 1920, Charles Stephens (the third person to attempt it) strapped himself inside a very heavy oak barrel and tied an anvil to his feet for ballast. Don’t do this. The anvil smashed through the bottom of the barrel, taking him with it and leaving behind one of his arms. He also died.

Wood is good but rubber is better. In 1928, Jean Lussier used a six-foot rubber ball with thirty-two inner tubes reinforced with steel bands. He survived unharmed. Thirty-three years later, Nathan Boya used a steel sphere encased in six-ply rubber with similar results. Probably the most elaborate design was used in Steve Trotter and Lori Martin’s second successful attempt in 1995: two hot water tanks, surrounded by a thick layer of Kevlar with oxygen tanks large enough to last an hour; it was also the most expensive option, costing $19,000.

Take some sandwiches and air tanks so you don’t get hungry or suffocate waiting to be rescued. In 1930, George Stathakis suffocated after getting stuck behind the water curtain for eighteen hours (his companion, a pet turtle, survived).

Even if you survive, you will be fined up to a maximum of $10,000 plus court costs for “stunting without a license.” (In 1995, Steve Trotter also spent two weeks in jail.)





36. KILL YOUR COMPUTER




If your laptop crashes every time you launch your browser, you spend more time watching the pinwheel of death than Netflix, or it is just so old that you wish it would hurry up and die so you can move on with your life, here are some ways to hasten its demise.

For desktop computers, the surest way to mercy kill your machine is to target the power supply. The power supply’s job is to filter 240 volts down to bite-sized 12V, 5V, and 3.3V DC allocations that modern PCs need. So if you want to screw up your PC, buy a cheap power supply and don’t use a surge protector (or just stick a chisel into it). With luck, you’ll scorch some of the motherboard and toast the RAM.

Keep your computer on the floor and let it accumulate dust. Never vacuum on or near it. Eventually the cooling fan will get clogged up and your ICU will overheat. If you can’t wait that long, just remove the heat sink and the processor will cook itself to death in short order.

During a lightning storm, leave your computer plugged into the power supply and the modem plugged into the wall. Hopefully, your house will get struck by lightning, frying both your computer and any other piece of electrical equipment plugged into the mains.

Dumping it in water may seem like a quick fix, but that might not be enough to kill your computer. Wine, beer, or soda, on the other hand, should do the trick. The sugar will wreak havoc on the internal components.

Pack it up in an Amazon box and leave it on your front porch. Your friendly neighborhood package thief should take it off your hands in a matter of hours (or even minutes, depending on where you live).

Most modern laptops are powered by lithium-ion batteries, which offer outstanding capacity and performance. Unfortunately, they’re also incredibly explosive under the right conditions. If you can manage to puncture the battery, it should start smoking and explode into a fiery mess of plastic and metal within a few seconds.*



*Note: This is incredibly dangerous and is a terrible idea. Only attempt if you are really, really stupid.





DON’T VOID THE WARRANTY


If you’re trying to run a warranty scam to get your laptop replaced for free, first check to see if there’s a water damage detection sticker on the device (usually behind the battery). You’ll want to replace the sticker before bringing it in for “repairs,” or kill it using a method that doesn’t involve liquid.





37. BECOME A RELIGIOUS ICON




Long before you start building your fan base and drawing really big crowds, you need to ask yourself some tough questions. Being a messiah isn’t just about riding donkeys and performing miracles (though this will take up a lot of your time). It’s a major lifestyle choice where every aspect of your personality will be brought into the public domain and placed under intense scrutiny. Plus, it’s a highly competitive area, with new messiahs ready to step into your sandals immediately after your inevitable crucifixion.





YOUR IMAGE


There are a few things you’ll need to do in order to persuade your followers that you’re the Chosen One:

Lose weight. Messiahs tend to be average to underweight. Accentuate with baggy clothing.

Wear comfortable shoes and grow a beard or grow your hair long—past your waist should do the trick. Down to your feet is even better.

Put whitener on your teeth. Messiahs always have bright teeth.

Try to cut down on any bad habits like swearing, picking your nose, smoking, and binge drinking. You’ll soon be dying for the sins of the world, and you don’t want to lessen the impact of your self-sacrifice by getting lung cancer or cirrhosis.





CREATE A BUZZ


Relocate to a hot and dry country. For some reason, messiahs never really take off in places where average rainfall exceeds twenty inches per year.

The best way to build your status as messiah is to deliberately shun publicity by avoiding large crowds. Take every opportunity to go fishing with a few close friends. Frequently lock yourself in the toilet and say you need time alone to think, or better still, wander off into the desert for a few weeks. (Make sure your agent knows where you are.) This introspective and enigmatic behavior will soon lead to bookings on popular late night shows and podcasts.

Call everyone “my child,” but don’t be patronizing. People hate that. Also, touch everyone you meet on the top of the head.

Start hanging out with prostitutes, the poor, the sick, and the unemployed. This will make you appear compassionate and draw attention away from the fact that you’re a self-entitled fraud.





BE VAGUE


If anyone asks you whether you are the messiah, deny it (even if you really are). Then lock yourself in the toilet.

Tell everyone how great your dad’s house is. They will assume you are talking about Heaven (don’t mention that he lives in a motel in Detroit).

Use lots of metaphors when speaking to the crowds that inevitably form whenever you leave the house. Talk inaudibly. This will create an atmosphere of awed silence in your presence, while also making you appear humble. Popular topics of conversation include bread and sheep.





PERFORM MIRACLES


Do not attempt any “magic” tricks—everyone hates magicians. Stick to the basic repertoire of killing shrubs, healing the sick, and raising the dead.





CRUCIFIXION


Just before your death, it is good practice to throw a quiet dinner party for twelve of your closest friends. Make an effort—don’t just offer them bread and wine—you’ll look like a cheapskate. Also, don’t freak them out by saying stuff like “eat me” or they’ll be reaching for their coats before you can say “transubstantiation.”





RESURRECTION


Arrange for a friend to break into the mortuary after your death and steal your body.





FREE MONEY AIN’T EASY


In order to receive tax-exempt status in the United States, a religion must have some combination of the following characteristics:

Distinct legal existence

Recognized creed and form of worship

Definite and distinct ecclesiastical government

Formal code of doctrine and discipline

Distinct religious history

Membership not associated with any other church or denomination

Organization of ordained ministers

Ordained ministers selected after completing prescribed courses of study

Literature of its own

Established places of worship

Regular congregations

Regular religious services

Sunday schools for the religious instruction of the young

Schools for the preparation of its members





38. AVOID RIDICULOUS STATE LAWS


You may think the law preventing you from enjoying a harmless marijuana joint is absurd. Or that you should be able to drive as fast as you damn well please. While it’s true neither of those laws are particularly popular, they really don’t quite fit the bill for being truly “ridiculous.”

In Arizona, it is illegal to hunt camels, and a driver who removes or ignores barricades at a flooded wash faces a minimum $2,000 fine.

In Arkansas, it is illegal to mispronounce Arkansas.

In California, it is against the law for anyone to stop a child from jumping over puddles of water, and a city ordinance states anyone who detonates a nuclear device within city limits will be fined $500.

In Colorado, a woman can only wear a red dress on the streets before 7 p.m.

Also, you can’t drive a black car on Sunday in Denver.

You will break the law in Connecticut when your bicycle reaches speeds in excess of 65 mph or when you walk across the street on your hands.

Florida women can be fined for falling asleep under a hair dryer.

In Miami it is illegal for anyone to imitate an animal. Sex with a porcupine (unless you are a porcupine) is also prohibited.

You can’t tie a giraffe to a lamppost in Georgia or keep your donkey in the bathtub.

In Idaho, you can’t ride a merry-go-round on a Sunday or fish on a camel’s back under any circumstances.

Illinois law expressly forbids giving lighted cigars to dogs, cats, and other domesticated pets. Eating in a restaurant that is on fire, peeing in your neighbor’s mouth, and drinking beer out of a bucket while sitting on the curb are all off limits.

In Indiana, all hotel sheets must be exactly ninety-nine inches long and eighty-one inches wide.

In Iowa, kisses may not last longer than five minutes, and a man with a moustache may not kiss a woman in public.

Kansas condemns the use of ice cream on cherry pie, whale hunting, snowball fights, and screaming at haunted houses.

A woman in Kentucky must get her husband’s permission before buying a hat, and anyone who has been drinking is “sober” until he or she “cannot hold onto the ground.”

In Louisiana, biting someone with your natural teeth is “simple assault,” but if you have false teeth you will be charged with “aggravated assault.” Having a pizza delivered to someone without their permission will land you with a $500 fine.

Maine prohibits leaving an airplane during a flight, leaving your Christmas decorations up too long, or walking down the street with your shoelaces untied.

When in Michigan, you are prevented from using a decompression chamber to kill your dog, swearing in front of your wife and children, or letting your pig run free in Detroit unless it has a ring in its nose.

In Mississippi, it is illegal to seduce a woman with a false promise of marriage.

The law in Missouri precludes the installation of bathtubs with four legs resembling animal paws in Kansas City, or the rescuing of women who are in their nightgowns by firemen in St. Louis.



The reason why so many absurd laws remain on the books, of course, is because nobody bothered to officially remove them. Most, if not all, are never enforced.





39. GO BASE JUMPING




One behavior that separates humans from other animals is that some of us seem to enjoy exposing ourselves to unnecessary risks. BASE jumping, which involves using a parachute to jump from fixed objects (rather than from an airplane), is one sport in which this peculiar trait can be expressed.





WHAT DOES “BASE” STAND FOR?


BASE sums up the sort of locations from which you can expect to hurl yourself: it stands for building, antenna, span (a bridge, arch, or dome), and earth (a cliff or other natural formation). Critics of the “sport” point out that it can also stand for “bones and shit everywhere.”





HOW IS IT DIFFERENT FROM SKYDIVING?


First, it’s much more dangerous. It is recommended that you perform at least 150 skydives before attempting your first BASE jump. BASE jumps are usually made from much lower altitudes than skydives, although the current Guinness World Record for a BASE jump is from the north face of Mount Everest at 23,688 feet.

Skydivers use air flow to stabilize their position so that they can open their parachute cleanly. BASE jumpers rarely reach terminal velocity and therefore have less aerodynamic control, making chute deployment more hazardous. You’ll also need a special parachute(and no backup—no time to use it), one that is bigger with a large pilot chute, and you’ll only have a few seconds of free fall before chute deployment.

When you complete a jump, you can apply for a BASE number. The first (BASE-1) was awarded to Phil Smith of Houston, Texas, in 1981.





WHERE CAN I JUMP?


BASE jumping itself isn’t illegal, but the trespassing you’ll have to do to reach some of your jump platforms is. There is only one man-made structure in the US where you can BASE jump legally year-round without a permit: Perrine Bridge in Twin Falls, Idaho.

Once a year, however, on the third Saturday in October, it’s “Bridge Day” at the New River Gorge Bridge in Fayetteville, West Virginia, where over eight hundred jumps are made in a window of just six hours. Other than that, if you want to jump from a building or other tall object, it’s up to you to get to the top without being arrested.





40. BECOME A FAKE MEDIUM




A poll conducted by YouGov found that 45 percent of those surveyed believed in ghosts. Only 32 percent of those respondents believed ghosts could harm the living. So clearly there’s a demand for fake mediums to “contact” the other world. Here are some of the good old-fashioned tricks that fake mediums used in their heyday. Incredibly, these methods succeeded in fooling thousands of Victorians into parting with their cash in the belief that they were witnessing the manifestations of dead spirits.





DIM THE LIGHTS


Always perform your séance in a dark or nearly dark room. Tell your clients that this makes it easier for the spirits to manifest.





SPIRIT CABINET


Hide all your magic tricks, props, and costumes in a large piece of furniture that has hidden compartments or in a curtained-off area of the room. This is your spirit cabinet. Explain that this will help you to attract, channel, and conserve spiritual forces. Allow your clients to view the cabinet, but make sure that the last person to inspect it is your assistant, who will plant the necessary equipment. Keep more wigs and makeup in a fake panel in your chair.





GHOSTS


Get your assistant to materialize from a trapdoor in the floor or a sliding panel in the wall, or you can pretend to be a dead child by walking around the room on your knees.





MOVING OBJECTS


Floating spirits can be made by painting faces on inflated balloons. Attach objects by a fine thread to an adjustable fishing rod to make them move.





SPIRIT MUSIC


Getting the spirit to play a musical instrument is an important part of the show. For example, make a violin play eerie notes by dangling a weight from a thread off the end of the table. The thread then passes over strings of the violin and then through the keyhole of a door, where it is pulled back and forth by your assistant in the next room.





HOLDING HANDS


Holding hands around the table ensures that you cannot use them for trickery. However, if everyone alternates hand/wrist, then after the lights have gone down it is easy to make your neighbors believe they are each holding one of your hands, when in fact, one will be holding the hand and the other the wrist of the same arm, leaving the other hand free for wielding your fishing rod, etc.





ECTOPLASM


Spirit forms are made of ectoplasm, which is a weird wispy substance that often emanates from a top-notch medium. Make fake ectoplasm from egg white and mixtures of soap, chewed paper, silk, or cheesecloth. Secret it inside your mouth, and pull it out and wave it around at an opportune moment.





41. BREAK BRICKS WITH YOUR HANDS




Breaking bricks with your hands requires impeccable technique and considerable mental focus. The three basic principles are having self-belief, hitting the brick as fast as possible, and minimizing the contact surface of the blow to maximize force.





BUT WHY, THOUGH?


The first question you need to answer before you begin the task is, Why on earth are you doing this? Some valid reasons include, but are not limited to:

Win a bet

House demolition

To see if you can

The brick slept with your spouse





STANCE


With the soles of your feet firmly on the ground, bend your knees to lower your center of gravity. This is the solid base from which you will generate the power and speed necessary to break bricks.





INTENSE FOCUS


Start by taking long, deep breaths to calm your nerves and eliminate all distractions. You want to be present in the moment and mindful of the task at hand.

Place both of your hands on the surface of the brick, and focus intently on the point through which you intend to strike. Aim for a target at the center and a few inches below the bottom of the brick. Maintain this eye contact until your hand has smashed through the masonry.





SPEED AND FLUIDITY


Move fast and with natural ease. Raise your striking hand backward behind your head in a natural arc, while keeping your other hand on the brick.

This is your backswing: It focuses your energy and keeps you fluid.

Turn your hips away from the target, and then bring them back again to transfer this torque energy into a striking force. Slice downward with a karate-chop hand as fast as you can in a natural arc, and tighten the muscles of the hand as it slices through the surface of the brick.

As your striking hand comes down, drive the other hand backward in a circular movement to balance your body and to increase your power.





CONTACT SURFACE


The part of your hand that makes contact is the small bone just below your little finger (the fifth metacarpal). Human bone can withstand forty times more stress than concrete, while the muscles, tendons, ligaments, and soft tissues in the hand disperse the energy of the impact up through the arm so that you do not injure yourself.

The more momentum your hand has, the more force it can generate, and when that force is delivered through a small point of contact, it is concentrated with devastating results.





Most Bricks Broken While Holding an Egg


Kevin Bergquist of Bradenton, Florida, holds the world record for most concrete bricks broken while holding a raw egg. In 2015, he smashed through twenty-eight in a single blow without so much as cracking the fragile egg.





42. EXERCISE YOUR SQUATTER’S RIGHTS


In the US, squatting laws vary from state to state, but usually your presence won’t be tolerated for very long. The legal property owner and/or neighbors will inform the authorities, and then the police will bust your ass for trespassing and kick you off the property. However, there are a few things you can do to tip the scales in your favor.





ENTERING THE PROPERTY


There are two types of squat: back window and front door. In the first, you come and go without being seen so no one knows you are there. In the second, you don’t make any effort to hide your comings and goings (for example, overstaying your welcome as a renter or a temporary guest through sites like Airbnb).

For the back-window approach, when entering the property for the first time, do not leave any signs of forced entry. Breaking into a house is a criminal offense (such as forcing locks, breaking windows, etc.). However, unscrewing a padlock bracket and then hiding it is not. The burden of proof will be on the owner to prove that there was a lock there. It is unlikely that he will have taken photographs of it.





HIDE THE TRESPASSING SIGNS


Remove and hide any signs that warn against trespassing. Again, the burden of proof is on the owner to show that all reasonable efforts were made to alert trespassers that they are unwelcome, and if you plead the Fifth, even though everyone knows that the signs were there, they can’t prove that you saw or removed them. However, you will still be considered a trespasser against the owner. In legal terms, what you are doing is called adverse possession, which is a form of civil trespass unless you fulfill certain legal requirements.





STAY FOR A LOOONG TIME


To keep a property, you must continuously possess it for several years (this varies from state to state) against the owner’s will and pay all the property taxes. As a squatter, you have no rights as a tenant, but you do have a constitutional right to due process of law, which means that the owner will have to take you to trial before you can be evicted, so long as the police don’t rule that you are in the process of breaking and entering and remove you. Don’t cause any criminal damage because you may be forced to pay damages to the owner.

Of course, the shoe may be on the other foot, and you may be the property owner who’s being squatted upon. To avoid having your home overtaken by a squatter, limit the period you will rent it out to less than thirty days. In many states, renters enjoy certain rights that kick in after that time frame.





43. FLY FOR FREE




Imagine if you could fly anywhere in the world free of charge with no boarding lines and no hassle. Well, imagine you’re a world leader or an airline pilot, then, because for most of us there’s no such thing as a free lunch. Or is there?





GET BORN ON A PLANE


Being born on a plane used to guarantee free air travel for life; it’s less likely these days because no airline allows passengers to fly if they are more than thirty-two weeks pregnant without a doctor’s note, and not at all beyond thirty-six weeks. In any case, that was largely an urban myth, since there have only been two recorded incidents of a baby being awarded free flights for life. This is the exception, not the rule. Anyway, that’s no good for you because you’ve already been born.





GET BUMPED


Every day, hundreds of people get free plane tickets from major airlines. These people agree to be bumped onto a later flight when too many passengers turn up for the scheduled flight (all flights are generally overbooked by 10 percent to allow for no-shows). If the airline can’t find another flight leaving within two hours, then the bumped passengers are entitled to 400 percent of the one-way fare (but no more than $1,350). To avoid paying such a high amount, the airline will usually request that other passengers volunteer their seats for more moderate compensation.

Before you volunteer, make sure you have flexible travel arrangements so you can take advantage of the offer. Increase your chances further by volunteering to get bumped when you first check in.





COLLECT AIR MILES ON YOUR CREDIT CARD


Lots of credit cards offer air miles for every dollar that you spend on the card. If you spend a gazillion dollars on your credit card, you’ll get a free ticket. However, be warned that some of these cards have very high interest rates, so make sure you set up a direct debit to pay off the balance every month without fail to avoid any interest. Many stores also do loyalty cards that offer air miles.

Southwest customers who fly one hundred times in a year, or who earn 110,000 points, are awarded a companion pass that allows their designated companion to fly free with them whenever they fly.





DATE A PILOT OR FLIGHT ATTENDANT


Airline crews have a quota of free tickets for themselves and their family. Don’t get married, though, because you’ll spend evenings alone, eating pizza in front of endless reruns of CSI while your partner flies around the world. Pay attention—that’s the exact opposite of what we’re trying to achieve here!





MAIL YOURSELF


Get a friend to duct tape you into a sturdy box and ship you to your destination by air freight. Take plenty of bottled water (drink the water and pee in the empty bottles) and wrap up warm because temperatures in the hold will reach well below zero.





44. LAND AN AIRPLANE ON OPEN WATER


If you want to play the land-an-Airbus-A320-on-the-Hudson game, or any body of water for that matter, it’s not as easy as it looks. Once you’ve lost both engines, the only chance you’ve got of walking away alive is to get the nose down and glide so that when you hit the water, the wings are producing very little lift while your forward motion is as slow as possible in order to pull off a low-speed, low-impact landing.





GLIDING BY THE SEAT OF YOUR PANTS


It might not surprise you to learn that airliners are not designed for gliding. A typical glider has a glide ratio of thirty or sixty to one, which means that for every mile of altitude, it can travel for thirty or sixty miles before it lands. An Airbus A320 has a fraction of that. If you lose power at five thousand feet, you’ll have about four or five minutes to land, so you’ve got to think really fast.

Here’s what to do:

Send a Mayday call to air traffic control and inform them that you intend to land in the water.

Tell the cabin crew and passengers to prepare for a crash landing.

Keep the landing gear stowed to make the bottom of the plane more like the hull of a boat. This will aid a smooth landing and stops warning sirens from going off as the plane gets closer to the ground.

Turn off the air-conditioning to equalize the cabin pressure to match that on the outside.

Your most pressing concern is to slow the aircraft down. Extend the wing flaps fully as you approach the water. Your speed is crucial—too fast and you will break up upon impact; too slow and the plane will stall, the wings will lose their lift, and the plane will simply drop out of the air and break apart.

As you bring the plane in to land, lift the nose up to twelve degrees, which is higher than a normal runway landing, and lower the tail end. You must land the plane absolutely level, otherwise the plane can break apart on impact, or one wing will clip the water sending the plane into a cartwheel. Try to skim the surface of the water like a pebble.

Once you have landed, close all air vents and openings to keep the aircraft buoyant in the water. The plane is designed to float long enough to evacuate your passengers.

Look on the bright side—things could have been a lot worse: You could have landed at LAX.





There’s an App for That


If you’re a nervous flyer, don’t download the Am I Going Down? app before your next flight. If you input your flight information, it will tell you the odds that your flight will crash. Spoiler: They’re infinitesimally low.





45. EAT BLOWFISH IN JAPAN




As culinary games of Russian roulette go, you can’t live more dangerously than eating fugu—Japanese blowfish—a delicacy so poisonous that when prepared incorrectly, the smallest amount of its venom can kill an adult human in less than thirty minutes (the ovaries, intestines, and liver contain tetrodotoxin, a deadly neurotoxin).

Here are a few tips to reduce the risk that you’ll end the evening in respiratory and cardiac failure. However, your heart will miss a few beats when you see the bill: At the best restaurants one serving of fugu can cost up to $250 per person.





SLEEPING WITH THE FISHES


In Japan, about ten thousand tons of blowfish are consumed each year, but fatalities are actually on the decline as the strict laws and licenses that govern preparation of the dish have been tightened.

Call up the restaurant in advance and warn them that you will be ordering fugu. Preparation is such an art that the restaurant may have to bring in a specialized sushi chef, so give them plenty of notice. Unless you are a valued and regular customer, any restaurant that is prepared to serve you fugu without a reservation should be avoided.

Fugu sashimi is very filling, and although it is very expensive, the portion size is usually enough to satisfy two diners. Eat at the sushi bar rather than the table so that you can see it being prepared; these moments may be your last on Earth, so savor them.





DELICATE TASTE


The fugu will likely be served in small thin strips with a radish dip accompaniment and a lime wedge. Only squirt on a few drops of lime (sudachi), and don’t ruin the delicate taste with heaps of soy sauce. Not only will you destroy the flavor, you’ll appear uncouth. Eat slowly and wait for your lips and tongue to start tingling. This is normal and not a sign that you are about to die; although if you lose feeling in your mouth or tongue, it’s time to call an ambulance. You’ll be dead by the time it arrives, but why not.





OTHER FISH TO FRY


There are about a hundred kinds of fugu worldwide, but the most poisonous, expensive, and delicious variety is torafugu, and the best season to eat it is during the winter (when you will pay a premium).





46. RESTART A STOPPED HEART




If you suddenly find yourself in a scene straight out of Pulp Fiction and your mob boss’s girlfriend collapses to the ground with a stopped heart, what can you do? Especially if you don’t happen to have a savvy drug-dealer pal to hand you a needle filled with adrenaline and talk you through it?

Believe it or not, you have a number of options.





CALL 9-1-1


If you don’t have any clue about what to do (and honestly, even if you do), call 9-1-1 first. Put your phone in speaker mode, as you’ll need your hands free if you want to follow the instructions of the emergency operator.

People tend to forget things in moments of stress, and this will be no exception. In a pinch, the operator might be able to help you with questions like “How many compressions in a row in CPR?” Assuming you don’t have this book with you at the time, of course.





TRY CPR


The first thing most sane people attempt in such a situation is to perform CPR. If you slept through your first aid class (or never bothered to take one), that stands for cardiopulmonary resuscitation. Cardio means “heart,” pulmonary means “lungs,” and resuscitation means “getting them going again.”

CPR is a series of chest compressions and breaths. Performed correctly, they can keep your friend alive until the ambulance arrives and the EMTs can take over. If you’re lucky, it might even restart a stopped heart.

CPR is performed in a series of steps:

Pump the chest thirty times by placing the heel of your hand in the center of the person’s chest, putting your other hand on top of that one, and pressing the chest down two inches at a rate of one hundred per minute.

Tilt the person’s head back and lift his chin to open the airway.

Pinch his nose closed, take a normal breath, cover the person’s mouth with yours and blow out your breath until you see his chest rise. Go ahead and give another breath, taking about one second per breath.

Repeat steps one through three until help arrives.



If you have trouble keeping track of chest compressions, just follow the beat of the Bee Gees’ hit song “Stayin’ Alive.” It lines up almost perfectly.





LOOK FOR A DEFIBRILLATOR


Many offices, schools, and other public places feature AEDs (automated external defibrillators). If you don’t see one when you need it, ask. Stress causes people to forget they’re standing next to such things.

Follow the instructions on the AED to the letter. These are designed to be easy and safe to use. Once you attach the pads to the patient, the machine analyzes the attached heartbeat and delivers a shock designed to restart it.

Don’t mess around with a defibrillator just for fun. The same shock that can start a stopped heart can just as easily stop a beating heart.





47. TOUGH IT OUT IN A FOREIGN JAIL




You disembark from the airplane after a grueling long-haul flight. All you want to do is get to your hotel, take a bath, and sleep for twelve hours. No such luck. There’s a welcoming party of grim-faced drug officers waiting to drag you off to jail on charges of illegally transporting drugs. You should have packed your own bags, you moron. Now what do you do?

Here’s how to survive your own nightmare episode of Locked Up Abroad.





ARE THEY GOING TO KILL ME?


Some countries might (Thailand, Malaysia, Singapore, Indonesia, Iran, and Algeria), but many others have mandatory prison sentences ranging from seven years to life, without the possibility of parole for drug violations. Unfortunately, there is very little that anyone can do to help you if you are caught with drugs. If you’ve told someone at home when to expect you back, you have a chance that they will report you missing to your embassy. You can’t rely on one phone call in a foreign lockup situation.





CONTACT THE US EMBASSY


If you are arrested and are carrying a US passport, you have the right to contact the American embassy immediately. When an American has been arrested or detained, the local police are obliged to contact the nearest US embassy.





WHAT CAN EMBASSY OFFICIALS DO FOR YOU?


So long as they know where you are, they can visit you in jail; they can give you a list of local lawyers (but they can’t assume responsibility for their integrity—in other words, the lawyers could be crooked or incompetent); they can notify your family and friends; and they can intercede with local authorities to ensure that your rights are being observed (under local law, that is—these may well be very different from what you would expect at home).





WHAT CAN’T AN EMBASSY DO?


It can’t demand that you be released and repatriated, nor can it represent you at trial, give legal advice, or pay any fines or legal fees.





CASH AND CIGARETTES


On the inside, cash and cigarettes are essential commodities; they can get you anything from better food (instead of starvation rations) to protection and even sex. Using these as bribes may even get you released.





LEARN THE LANGUAGE AND GET TO KNOW PEOPLE


If you get thrown in for a long time, learn the language, culture, and customs of the people, and use that knowledge.





KEEP YOUR HEAD DOWN


You may be a mule, but don’t be a donkey as well. The last thing you need is for the goon squad to single you out as a troublemaker. If you want to have the crap beaten out of you or spend weeks naked in solitary confinement with nothing but a filthy mattress, go ahead and act like a big shot. If you’re sensible, stick to the rules and don’t do anything to get noticed.





Set Your Sights on Norway


If you have to be incarcerated, you might want to try for Bastøy Island in Oslo Fjord, Norway. The island is home to a minimum-security prison where inmates enjoy tennis, horseback riding, fishing, and tanning while they serve their sentences.





48. GET INTO SECRET SOCIETIES


Have you ever been at a party and thought, “Man, this would be so much better if everybody were wearing masks and plotting to bring about a new world order?” Of course you have; who hasn’t? Well the solution to this problem, and many others, lies in joining a secret society.

Shrouded in mystery and usually having more money than morality, these bastions of privilege are independent from the schools where they are located, and many own the buildings where they meet. So they’re free to define “good works” in whatever way is most convenient for them, with little to no oversight.





DO YOUR HOMEWORK


Many secret societies don’t even reveal their real names and activities until after you’ve joined, so make sure you at least get a hint of what the society is about, be it burning idols or starting forest fires. Otherwise you’ll join the cool and cryptically named Club XXX only to discover it’s actually just a group of people who gather to discuss the popular film series starring Vin Diesel.

Many secret societies only admit fifteen or sixteen people in a year, usually from influential families, as well as legacy members. So if you were born a nobody, you’ll have to find another route to world domination.





RITUAL


Try to join a society that keeps the ritual to a minimum, because after the novelty has worn off, all those hand gestures and lying naked in a coffin detailing your sexual exploits can become very tiresome.

Also, be wary of any secret society that keeps livestock. There are only two reasons why they might keep a goat, and neither of them is good:

Ritual sacrifice.

You’ll be locked in a room with the goat and told to perform unnatural acts with it in order to get into the society. If you admit to doing so, you’ll be banned for life. The ole switcheroo.





TAPPING


On tap day, stand in the quad with all the other junior hopefuls. If you feel a tap on your shoulder, walk purposefully up to your dorm room and await further instructions. There, in private, you will be given the choice of accepting or rejecting an offer of membership. If you don’t feel a tap—don’t despair: It may simply be an indication that you’re at MIT instead of Yale.





49. GET A FAKE PASSPORT




For underage drinking, a fake driver’s license is more than enough to convince the checkout guy that you’re old enough to buy a six-pack. But if you need to travel internationally without tipping anybody off that you’ve left, only a fake passport will do.





PICK YOUR COUNTRY OF ORIGIN


Not all passports are created equal, and some are more difficult to forge than others. For example, a United States passport is printed using sixty unique materials and has more than thirty distinct security features. Are you up to the task of creating a reliable fake yourself? And if you hire somebody else, can you really be confident in their work?

You’ll also want to take into account how flexible your travel options will be with your forged document. While someone who possesses a United States passport is free to travel to 166 different countries without a visa, a citizen of Myanmar is only permitted in forty-two.





CHEAP AND REALISTIC


Whichever country you choose for fake citizenship, you’ll find cheap and realistic products and you may even be able to negotiate a healthy discount if you buy in bulk.

Once you’ve tracked down a serviceable forger on the Dark Web (or in a seedy back alley), hand over a wad of unmarked bills (or bitcoin) along with three recent passport photos, your height, age, and your new identity and wait patiently. Your documents should be ready in a matter of days.





THE REAL DEAL


The number of passports has been steadily increasing. In the early nineties, fewer than 10 percent of Americans held passports. Since laws were passed in 2007 requiring passports for US citizens traveling to Canada and Mexico, that number has increased to around 36 percent. So this widens the field from which you can pick.

A good forgery may be able to get you onto a plane and out of your country of origin, but once you get to customs you’re almost certainly going to get caught. Unless of course your passport is 100 percent authentic—and you happen to look just like the original owner.

A recent study found that human beings are only passably good at facial recognition. When subjects were asked to match passport photos to faces, they got it wrong about 15 percent of the time. Which means, if you can manage to score a real passport, you might just get away with it if you share a striking resemblance to the person in the photo.





USE IT AT YOUR OWN RISK


Once you’ve got your fake ID, you can use it for identity theft, age deception, organized crime, or even just as a coffee table coaster and a fun conversation starter. However, if you ever get caught using it, the penalties can be severe. In the United States, you could face more than twenty years in prison, and some countries may imprison you indefinitely while they try to determine whether or not you’re a spy.





50. JOIN AN ANTI-WHALING CREW




The roar of the waves; the thrill of the catch; the air is thick with the shrill cries of seamen as they face off against each other in a battle over the world’s largest marine mammals.

Roaming around the freezing seas of the North Pacific are vessels staffed with whalers armed with harpoons on the quest for a dwindling source of lipstick and protein. Chasing after them are speedy ships manned by animal-loving activists looking to put their boats between Ahab and Moby Dick. Go on the high-seas adventure of your life and join the crew (that’s protecting Moby, of course).





DO YOUR RESEARCH


If you think you’ve missed your vocation but don’t know where to begin, you’re never too old to start saving whales. However, as any career counselor will tell you, you’ll need to do your research. So if you haven’t seen Whale Wars, Blackfish, The Perfect Storm, or Free Willy before, stream them immediately. You need to know what you’re getting into when it comes to dangerous sailing conditions and having a little boy’s spirit to save a whale.





KNOW YOUR ENEMIES


There are only three countries that participate in commercial whaling:

Norway: limited to the minke whale; responsible for killing five hundred to one thousand whales annually

Iceland: limited to the minke and fin whales; responsible for killing fewer than one hundred whales annually

Japan: limited to fifty-two minke, one hundred and fifty Bryde’s, and twenty-five sei whales; commercial whaling was recently reintroduced, with quotas similar to those set previously when whaling continued under the guise of scientific research



It should be noted that numerous other countries allow indigenous peoples to participate in small-scale whaling expeditions, but that’s an argument you don’t really want to touch with a ten-foot pole.





UNDERSTAND YOUR CREW


If you are serious about heading out on open water to stop the slaughter of the ocean’s gentle giants, look into joining the ranks of the Sea Shepherd Conservation Society. This nonprofit sails out of Washington State as well as Melbourne, Australia, and was featured on Animal Planet’s Whale Wars.

The goal of Sea Shepherd is to protect endangered marine mammals like whales, dolphins, and seals. They go about their conservation efforts by conducting nonviolent assaults on whaling boats, both at sea and on the docks. A favored tactic is “stink bombing” the ships with butyric acid, which they like to describe as “basically rancid butter.” So pack up those sticks of butter that have been sitting in the back of your fridge since ’98 and go out and eighty-six those whalers.

By the way, one of the things that makes whaling particularly nasty is that the whales don’t fight back. Despite a handful of reports of killer whale attacks in captivity, there have been no reported fatalities resulting from killer whale attacks in the wild.





51. GET BUMPED UP TO FIRST CLASS




On an airplane, the comfort gap between first class and coach is enough to make you chew your polyester seat with envy: delicious foods, larger screens, tons of leg room, plus you avoid the lowlifes in coach. There are health benefits too: On a long-haul flight, you’ll need some quality sleep and want to reduce the risk of getting a deep vein thrombosis. So how do you get bumped up to first class?





LOOK THE LOOK


Getting anything for nothing is always a matter of psychology and how you deal with human beings, because they sit between you and comfort. First of all, you’ve got to look like you belong in first class, so wear business attire, look clean and well-groomed and act confident (but not brash). The other flyers have paid a lot of money to avoid scruffy backpackers, children, and other forms of pond life, so you won’t stand a chance of upgrading if you look like you belong with the sweating masses.





Fake Experience


If you have frequent flyer status, then you will have priority over other coach-class customers. Failing this, make sure you look like a seasoned traveler rather than a newbie looking for a freebie. So leave the bulky travel pillow at home and stick with a slim carry-on bag. Veteran travelers don’t mess around with gimmicky sleep aids and bulky luggage.





Pick the Right Moment


Usually, if there are some upgrades happening, they are awarded to those frequent flyers who checked in first; but equally, if you check in last, the ticket counter agent will have a better idea of how many free first class seats are available or unclaimed.





Get Bumped


If the flight is oversold, offer to be bumped on to the next flight. If the airline can’t get you on another flight within an hour, you’ll get a free ride. And they will look favorably on you if any first class seats come up for grabs.





Be “Famous”


When booking, explain that you are a famous travel writer, and ask for an OSI code to be added to your record. At the check-in, hold your doctored copy of an influential travel guide (with your name prominently displayed on the spine and front cover), and explain your requirements. Most airlines will bend over backward to ensure you give them a favorable report.





Don’t Use the Word “Upgrade”


It’s too pushy and clumsy. Be a little more sophisticated by enquiring if you can have a seat close to the front or one with more leg room.





Cause a Problem


Damage your seat in some way: tear the safety belt, smear excrement on the food shelf, or crush some peanuts on your seat and then explain to the flight attendant that you are allergic to nuts and will go into anaphylactic shock unless you are moved to a first class seat where you can be absolutely certain that you won’t be exposed to any more nut-based hazards. If they don’t believe you, show them your EpiPen and tracheotomy scar (this requires prior preparation).





Complain about Your Neighbors


You can also get moved if you have a legitimate complaint against a neighboring passenger. Complaining of an offensive odor might do the trick, as would an unfortunate allergy to their chosen clothing fabric.

Incidentally, you may have occasionally wondered about the most expensive flight in the world. Wonder no longer. For the bargain price of around $38,000, Etihad Airways passengers can fly in “the Residence,” a three-room suite with a living room, bedroom, and private bathroom. Etihad is the airline of the United Arab Emirates.





52. BECOME A SNAKE CHARMER




What about snake charming doesn’t sound like a great idea? Sitting inches away from a poisonous snake, taunting it with obnoxious flute music, having it rise into striking position… It sounds awesome! If you’re interested in learning the tricks of the trade, you should head over to India where the modern concept of snake charming originated.





WHAT’S THE CHARM?


Once seen as a national treasure—snake charmers were flown around the world to promote tourism to India—the practice is now technically outlawed; however, you can still find practitioners throughout the country, playing their instruments and making their serpents wiggle and rise from their baskets.

Snake charmers set up shop like other types of street performers. They try and find a heavily trafficked area and claim a spot where they can set their basket and begin playing their bin or pungi, the flute-like instrument favored by charmers. As the charmers play their music, the snake—usually a cobra or viper—rises from the basket and waves in the air as if entranced by the music. In actuality, the snake cannot hear the music but can feel the vibrations. Also, it is not hypnotized; it is just getting into a defensive position in order to strike.

Snake charmers have become experts at surviving an angry snake. To prevent themselves from being bit, snake charmers often remove the fangs of their snakes or even sew their mouths shut entirely (the latter precaution is ultimately fatal to the snake, as it can no longer eat).





WHERE TO BEGIN


First things first: If you want to be a snake charmer, you need a snake. You could go out in the Indian wild and try your luck at capturing a cobra. Chances are you will wind up getting bitten. Therefore, you should head to a local gift store and purchase the realest-looking fake snake that you can find. Trust us, this is much safer.





SNAKE IN THE GRASS


Seeing as how your fake snake will not be reacting to the vibrations put out by your flute, you are going to need to get creative. After you purchase an authentic Indian basket, you will need to buy some extra-fine fishing line. Next, find a place to set up your scam that has some sort of overhang. A street light or building’s eave should work. You need to tie the line around your snake’s head, loop it over the overhang, and tie it around your flute. Once you take the top off your basket, begin playing your flute, twisting the instrument clockwise as you play. This will reel the line around the flute and raise your snake. Be sure to move the flute around, as it will not only make your snake “dance” but it will distract your onlookers. When the snake reaches its peak height, begin twisting the flute counterclockwise in order to put your snake to bed.





53. STREET RACE IN MALAYSIA


Street racing is illegal in Malaysia, but that doesn’t stop an estimated two hundred thousand young men from cruising the streets most evenings in their modified cars or sucky little motorcycles in search of an adrenaline rush. If you want to join the scene, buy a scooter or an old Malaysian banger, and see how quickly you can wedge yourself under a truck.





MAT REMPIT


If you race your car or crappy little kapcai (scooter) on the street, you are known as Mat Rempit in Malay. The root of the term lies in the combination of the expression “ramp the throttle” and the noise made by a two-stroke engine. To impress your fellow racers, you should spend most of your free time performing pointless modifications on your vehicle to squeeze a bit more power from your pathetic piece of junk and make the exhaust sound less like a hair dryer.

Mat Rempit like to show off (and distinguish themselves from pizza delivery boys) by performing motorcycle stunts such as the superman (head and shoulders at handlebar height, body flat, and one leg cocked on the back of the seat); scorpion (stand on the seat with one leg during a wheelie); sailboat (stand on the seat and steer with the feet); and wikang (front wheelie). These efforts are based on the principle that the more stupid the stunt, the more attention is diverted away from your ridiculous bike.





CILOK RACING


Cilok is racing a scooter while weaving in and out of moving and stationary traffic (optional: then posting a video on YouTube of you reaching the speed limit while going downhill with a tailwind).





CAR RACING


Most racers are low paid or unemployed, so they don’t have much money to spend on their cars. Most drive something homegrown or Japanese like a boxy first-generation Proton Wira, a small hatchback Subaru Impreza, or a fifteen-year-old Nissan Cefiro.





ROUTES


The police have been clamping down on illegal racing since the early 2000s (each weekend, around ten Mat Rempit are hospitalized following high-speed motorcycle accidents), but on weekend nights you’ll still find a meet in many of the city centers (Kuala Lumpur, Selangor, Johor Bahru), or check out the drift racing on hill roads such as Bukit Tinggi or Teluk Bahang in Penang. Even watching street races is illegal, so if the police arrive, hit the gas and speed away as quickly as your 50cc engine will allow.





54. STOW AWAY ON BOARD A SHIP




A stowaway is anyone who hides on a train, bus, plane, or ship in the hope of getting something for nothing. As most sensible people know, you get what you pay for, and when you become a stowaway, you expose yourself to considerable danger and discomfort. There are also serious legal consequences if you are discovered, especially on a plane. So stow away at your own risk.





FREIGHT WITH DANGER


Each form of transport comes with its own risks. Every year lots of people are injured trying to jump off moving trains, while airplane stowaways are often found frozen to death inside the landing gear compartments. The major hazard for ship stowaways is choosing the wrong hold and being crushed by millions of tons of cargo or being unprepared for the length of the trip. Be ready for many weeks at sea; be sure to have adequate supplies of food and water or you will be dead within a few days. That said, there is a certain romantic appeal to placing your fate in the hands of a crew of jolly jack-tars as they sail their ship through the high seas.

The safest vessel on which to hitch a lift is a container ship, as they have low levels of security and more places to hide, especially empty containers. The port and starboard service tunnels that run below decks are good places to board. However, bear in mind that each year an estimated 1,390 containers fall off the ships transporting them and are lost at sea. If you should be unlucky enough to be inside one of them when it goes overboard, your odds of survival are slim to none.





LONGSHOREMEN


Many stowaways have successfully posed as dock laborers by dressing up like Marlon Brando in On the Waterfront. If you don’t own a leather jacket, then a hard hat, jeans, and an orange visibility jacket will suffice. When lifting, always bend your knees and keep your back straight, otherwise everyone will quickly spot an impostor. Also, learn a few knots, because you may be asked to throw together a square knot bracelet to prove your credentials. Bone up on a few nautical terms before your trip, so that if you are challenged you can slap your thigh and speak authentically: “Arr, listen close, me hearty, I be no landlubber by the powers, as ye soon shall see maties, or ye can call me a scurvy dog!” As the gulls wheel overhead, hand them back the knotted rope with a toothless grin and, with a glint in your good eye, offer to buy them a quart of grog.





55. CHEAT AT GAMBLING




There are many different ways to cheat at gambling, but the idea behind all of them is the same: take the other players’ money without letting them know you’re cheating. If you want to rob someone, it’s simpler to just mug him—and possibly more honest.

There are three main ways to cheat at gambling.





SKILLED CHEATS


This is the classic kind of cheating you see in all sorts of films and shows. It involves things like palming cards, controlling the roll of dice, dealing from the bottom of the deck, or having the infamous ace up your sleeve.

Pros:

No gadgetry required; your only tools are your hands and your wits

Complete control over when and how to cheat

Difficult to detect (though not impossible)

Easy to conceal if things go south (just stop cheating)



Cons:

Takes years of practice to perfect

High margin of error





MECHANICAL CHEATS


If you can’t rely on skill, then go for ingenuity instead. Some cheats mark decks by edging cards with a fingernail or bending a corner of a card, while others swap out the regular dice for loaded ones. You can even find decks with coded patterns buried in the designs on their backs.

Pros:

Near 100 percent accuracy

Little to no practice required



Cons:

If your opponents figure out the device, you’re screwed

If the dice/deck gets changed out, you lose your advantage





TEAMWORK


Most card games are built on the premise that each player only knows the content of his own hand. Players who somehow share information can turn the odds in their favor. This is why table talk is usually discouraged.

Pros:

Does not produce direct evidence of cheating (devices, modified decks, hidden cards, etc.)

If you get caught, you can blame it on the rest of the crew



Cons:

The reward is diminished, since you’re splitting the winnings

Forced to trust your compatriots

Easy to spot





CASINOS CAN CHEAT TOO


If any player can cheat, there’s little (outside of gambling regulators and savvy players) to keep casinos from doing so too. In the case of large casinos in big gambling cities like Las Vegas or Atlantic City, there’s the threat of losing a reputation as an honest house too, but for smaller operations that’s less of a disincentive.

Some such places can use a shoe (a device used in a casino to hold several decks of cards shuffled together) rigged to keep the top card (usually a face card) in place until the dealer wants it. Others might have a craps table with a foot-activated electromagnet built into the base. Couple this with a set of dice with iron filings mixed into the paint on one face of each die, and you have a system that’s hard to spot and impossible to beat.





56. START YOUR OWN FRATERNITY


Joining these elite social groups to facilitate wild partying and lots of sex (and if their PR is to be believed, plenty of charitable works) holds a certain attraction (apart from the charity part). Who wouldn’t want to gain a band of brothers who will stand by you for life or simply drag you to the john so you can barf? However, pledging is a big pain in the ass, the dues are expensive, the time commitment is prohibitive, and once you’ve finished pledging, you’ll probably realize you have little in common with most of the other members after all. There is a cheaper and more empowering alternative: start your own.





DECIDE WHAT YOU STAND FOR


Don’t be intimidated by the fact that the oldest fraternity in the US, Phi Beta Kappa, was established all the way back in 1775. Write down about ten goals or ideals to which your organization should aspire. Don’t sweat it if you struggle to reach ten—even the Founding Fathers were only able to think of three self-evident truths. Don’t worry if most of them are about keggers and getting laid, but remember to add a few worthy aspirations about being an asset to campus life, so when you ask for the dean’s approval you don’t look like a members-only orgy club.





NAME IT


Devise a short motto that expresses your philosophy, and then write the initial letters of each word in Greek. Keep it brief because T-shirt logo printers charge by the letter. Some mottos like “Ethanol” or “Θα σσμ πιω τσ αίμα” (“I will drink your blood”) don’t need any embellishment.





COLLECT YOUR DUES


One of the downsides of belonging to a fraternity is the dues, which can range from $300 to $1,500 a semester, about half of which goes to the national headquarters. No wonder they want to get pledges. But if you start your own, you are the headquarters—you’re the top of the whole stinking pyramid. Even if your fraternity is just you and your rich gullible roomie, you get to keep all the money, so long as you spend a nominal amount on ritual props, fake blood, goats, past exam papers, books, banners, and other necessities.





GET RECOGNITION FROM THE PAN-HELLENIC COUNCIL


After you’ve taken part in some campus events, approach the Pan-Hellenic Council and ask if you can join. Don’t worry if they threaten to ban you from campus—bribe them with your first semester’s dues and everything you make above that is clear profit.





57. SURVIVE IN THE AUSTRALIAN OUTBACK




The Outback is not a single place but instead is the general term used by Aussies to refer to any part of the country that is not densely populated—which is virtually the whole thing. That means there’s a lot of land to cover, tons of nature to see, and all sorts of trouble to find yourself in. Get a start on your Outback adventure by renting a 4 × 4 in a northern city like Darwin and head south. The smart move would be to stick to the mapped highways and avoid going off-road. However, chances are you are not interested in smart moves. You will most likely find yourself completely lost. And that is when your real troubles will begin.





OUTBACK JACKASS


Besides the wide variety of snakes and spiders, the incredible heat of the Outback is a very big threat. There’s a real danger in walking long distances while the sun is fully out as a bout of heatstroke will leave you incapacitated and easy pickings for a pack of wild dingoes. Unless you are left with no other option, stay in your 4 × 4, keep the air-conditioning on high, and sightsee from the driver’s seat.





CROCODILE DUNDEE-IN-TRAINING


Do not go near any bodies of water. No matter how hot you are and how tempting a dip in the river may seem, jumping in is an invitation to a feast where you are the main course. The Australian saltwater crocodile patrols the waters of northern Australia. Just because you are away from the coastline does not mean you are safe from this territorial predator. The Australian saltwater crocodile is known to journey inland down freshwater rivers.

If you do happen to find yourself nose-to-snout with one of these beasts, you can try to defend yourself by holding the animal’s snout closed. The animal’s jaw has an extremely strong biting power, but a significantly weaker ability to open its mouth. Clamp the jaw down and hold on for a ride—it will likely be a short one.





CAPTAIN THOSE KANGAROOS


A staple of the Australian Outback, the kangaroo is a dangerous adversary when it comes to road travel. The animal has been known to jump in front of cars when startled. And with a leaping speed of about 30 mph, it can cause quite the collision. Be careful as you travel down the roads and be mindful of the many kangaroo crossing signs you will see.





58. START A MOTORCYCLE GANG




Starting a bike gang isn’t as easy as it used to be. A few decades ago, it was simply a matter of riding your hog down a dark alley and gathering together a collection of social misfits, sociopaths, and criminals. Today bike-riding crazies are a dying breed (or lifers), so you have to be more inventive to track them down.





START A FIGHT


Walk into the roughest bar in town and challenge the assembled company to a fight with the weapon of choice for the aspiring motorcycle gang member: the pool cue. Anyone who accepts your challenge can join, but not until you’ve spent half an hour trading blows and trashing the joint. This form of recruitment appears frequently in the movies—big hairy men beat the crap out of each other to earn mutual respect.





SQUARES NEED NOT APPLY


If you live in a more upmarket neighborhood, instead of fighting, hand out application forms. Anyone who carries a pen on their person, or who actually fills in the form, is clearly unsuitable, whereas those who make a nihilistic gesture of rejection, such as setting your questionnaire on fire, or pulling down their pants and micturating upon it, pass with honors.

Tattoos, beards, broken noses, scars, or a T-shirt slogan alluding to the ontological duality within biking culture (e.g., “Ride or die”) are also highly desirable.





NAMING YOUR GANG


Think of a name for your gang that implies menace but is also basic enough so that the illiterate members can paint it on their jackets. For example:

The Devil’s Owls

The Gliding Aces

The Old Badgers

The Rusty Angels



Individual road names are optional, but encouraged. Where possible, they should align with the overarching gang name.

You’ll also want to decide whether you want your gang to be a weekend activity or a way of life on the wrong side of the law. If biking and brotherhood is your life calling, then technically you are what is known in biking circles as a One Percenter, and should wear a One Percenter patch (this is a diamond or rhombus shape).

What Your Bike Says about You

Suzuki: I Googled “fast motorcycle” and bought the first thing I saw

Harley: I’m either a legit motorcycle enthusiast or I spent a lot of money to pretend to be

Honda: I value function over form

Vespa: I want all the benefits of a bicycle but without the pesky exercise





STAY SAFE


In today’s health-conscious society, it is reasonable to allow nonsmokers to join (no vaping though), but don’t compromise with road safety: Make sure everyone knows their turn signals. There’s a time and a place for pulling wheelies and burning out your back tire, but flagrant disregard of the highway code takes the rebel ethos a step too far.





59. PROTECT AGAINST A TIGER ATTACK




If you are backpacking around India or Asia and you are running short on funds, you might want to consider skipping the expensive hotel or hostel and sleeping off the beaten path in the woods. However, opting to camp to save cash presents one big risk: tigers.





ODDS IN YOUR FAVOR


Tigers are an endangered species; only about four thousand tigers are left in the wild. You will likely luck out and a hungry tiger will not wake you from your sleep. Instead, a poisonous snake will probably bite you. Sweet dreams!





NIGHT WALKER


If you do find yourself in tiger territory though, chances are you will be attacked in your sleep. Tigers are typically nocturnal hunters. With tigers coming in at about ten feet long and weighing approximately 400 to 570 pounds, you really don’t stand a chance. Even if it isn’t completely dark out, the tiger’s stripes are perfect camouflage for the long grass you’re probably settling down in.

The tiger will likely stalk your campsite in perfect silence before leaping out and pouncing on you. An adult tiger has an average horizontal leap of about fifteen feet. So you probably won’t hear it pouncing until after it has its paws on your chest and is biting at your throat. At least it will be so quick you won’t feel (most of) the pain.





PROTECT YOUR CAMPSITE


A smart choice if you do make the stupid one to camp in the Asian wilderness is to fortify your site. Here are some suggestions:





Booby Trap


Dig a few ditches around your site and cover them up with some small branches and leaves. When the tiger circles your camp sizing you up, chances are it will fall into one of the hidden holes. (If it works in the movies, it has to in real life, right?)





Bird Lime


Spread a sticky mixture of mustard oil and latex around your site so that the tiger will step in the goo. When it tries to clean itself, it will transfer the stickiness onto its face. Dust, leaves, and other debris will now stick to the tiger’s face and hamper its vision, making it unable to hunt.





Spikes


Sharpen some bamboo rods into spikes and then drive them into the ground around your site with the pointy ends sticking out. If you have enough time and energy to sharpen and build this type of barricade before nightfall, you should be safe—from tigers; this sort of thing won’t stop those poisonous snakes.





MASKS WORK…UNTIL THEY DON’T


If none of these methods appeal to you, you could try emulating the approach taken by local villagers in the Sundarbans region of India. They briefly outsmarted their local tigers by wearing masks on the back of their heads to discourage tigers from ambushing from behind. The strategy worked for a while, but the tigers eventually caught on to the ruse and the attacks resurfaced.





60. PERFORM A HAND BRAKE TURN




The hand brake turn—changing direction by 180 degrees within the width of a two-lane road in a few seconds—is an essential evasive driving technique. It is also known as the bootlegger’s turn as it is thought to have been used (if not invented) by hillbilly moonshiners to escape from revenue agents.





DETERMINE NECESSITY


If the handbrake turn was the safest, most efficient method for pulling an about-face in an automobile, they’d be teaching it in driver’s ed. For most situations, the undeniably safer K-turn is a much better option. That is, of course, with the following exceptions:

The ice cream man passes you going the opposite direction

You missed your turn and Google Maps says you’ll add five minutes to your trip if you don’t turn around

Your child says she has to go potty within thirty seconds of leaving the house (even though you asked her if she had to go before you left and she said no)

You stole some plutonium from a terrorist group and you need to buy enough time (and road) to get your DeLorean up to 88 mph and travel to 1955





THE BOOTLEGGER’S/ HAND BRAKE TURN


It is much easier to perform this maneuver in a car that has an automatic transmission and a hand-operated emergency brake.

Reduce or increase your speed so that it is between 25 and 30 mph.

Take your foot off the gas and then turn the steering wheel about half of a full turn while simultaneously applying the emergency brake. If your car has a manual transmission, floor the clutch as well to keep the engine from stalling.

When the car is sideways, release the emergency brake, step on the gas, and straighten the steering wheel. With a manual transmission, let out the clutch as you apply the gas.

Speed away, but make sure you don’t crash headlong into your baffled pursuers.



The bootlegger’s turn punishes tires, so be sure to practice with a borrowed car, a rental, or an outright stolen vehicle.





THE MOONSHINER’S TURN


This is a reverse bootlegger’s turn, which uses similar principles while the car is traveling in reverse. It is an effective way to escape from a roadblock.

Accelerate in reverse to a speed of 25–30 mph.

Take your foot off the gas, and then turn the steering wheel all the way to the left as quickly as possible.

When the car is sideways, shift from reverse into a low gear, straighten the steering wheel, and hit the gas.

Speed away, while ducking to avoid the automatic gunfire that will by now be pelting your back windshield.





61. SWIM WITH PIRANHAS


The jagged razor-sharp interlocking teeth of a piranha make it a fearsome predator (it can even bite through a steel fishing hook). Its name means “tooth-fish.” A school of piranhas can strip a piece of meat to the bone in a matter of seconds, so if you have to cross piranha-infested waters, it’s best to take precautions to minimize the risk of being attacked.

Most species of piranha live in freshwater in South America, particularly in the Amazonian, Guianas, and Paraguayan River systems. They prefer still or slow-moving streams or lakes, and they cannot survive in cold water. They form large groups mainly for defense rather than to hunt.





FEEDING PATTERN


Piranhas are omnivorous and can be both scavengers and predators. They mainly eat fish, plants, and insects, but they will also feed on dead animals or attack live ones that have fallen into the water. When water levels are high, your risk of being attacked is virtually nil, but during the dry season, when food is scarce, they will become desperate and take whatever they can get. During low-water season, they are themselves more vulnerable to attack from predators such as dolphins and caimans (a cousin of the crocodile), so piranhas are more aggressive at these times.

Piranhas are day feeders and they rest at night, so that is the best time to avoid them. Although, you are at greater risk of being attacked by other night-feeding predators such as caimans. However, caimans tend to stop feeding as conditions become dryer.





BLOOD DETECTORS


Piranhas can detect blood and are attracted to the tiniest bit of it—they can detect a single drop in two hundred liters of water. So stay out of the water if you have any open cuts or if you are menstruating.

The same goes for if you have recently handled raw meat (e.g., have been gutting fish), as this will also attract unwanted attention.





GOOD VIBRATIONS


Try to disturb the water as little as possible, and don’t make any noise. Piranhas are sensitive to the finest vibrations, and if you thrash around and splash, the piranhas will be alerted to your presence and may strike. Human attacks are most common in places where lots of people bathe at the same time.

You’ll also want to stay clear of any other animals that might be seen as prey by the opportunistic fish. For the most part, they’re scavengers more than hunters, so any dead or dying animals in your vicinity are likely to draw their attention, and you could get caught in the cross fire if a feeding frenzy ensues.





62. TELL IF YOUR NEIGHBOR IS A ZOMBIE


Nothing brings down property prices in your area quicker than the discovery that you have a reanimated human corpse living next door. Your neighbor seems never to sleep, his lack of free will is alarming to say the least, and his craving for human flesh means you live in constant fear for your life. However, before you run over there with a chain saw, spend a little time observing his movements to make sure that he really is a member of the undead.





WHAT IS A ZOMBIE?


First, decide which of the two types of zombie that you are dealing with: Hollywood B-movie zombie or voodoo zombie. The former is a human corpse that has come back to “life,” while the latter has had his free will and ti bon ange (Creole for “little good angel”) or soul removed by a sorcerer. To keep things simple, let’s assume that you are most likely to be troubled by the Hollywood B-movie strain.





CHARACTERISTICS


Zombies enjoy groaning and milling around in groups. Personal hygiene is poor: For example, your neighbor might have an arm hanging off, wear tattered clothing, and reek of rotting flesh. Other telltale signs include:

All other hobbies and interests will have been subsumed by his all-consuming and unquenchable hunger for human flesh

Unresponsive to communication

Pale complexion and clammy skin

Dull expression of the eyes

Lumbering gait, often with hands held out in front of the body at arm’s length

Immune to pain (for example, he doesn’t cry out when you step on his foot, cut off his arm, or try to run him over repeatedly with your car)





HOW TO DESTROY YOUR ZOMBIE NEIGHBOR


If you can’t run away or he corners you in an alley with a bunch of his friends, you should either burn or decapitate him. Zombies are highly susceptible to fire or electrocution. It is a common misconception that they have superhuman strength. In fact, their poor agility and coordination make them an easy target for your average flamethrower and/or M79 grenade launcher.

Your other option is to simply wait him out. While he may seem like an unstoppable monster, at the end of the day he’s really just a corpse. Given enough time, he will eventually rot and decompose to a point where you should be able to finish him off with little to no risk to your own flesh and brains.





63. TRACK DOWN THE MOST DANGEROUS ANIMALS




When people say they want to commune with nature, what they really mean is they want to get up close and personal with the cute, fluffy animals…and as far away from the deadly, poisonous ones as possible. Which is unfortunate, because while they’re cuddling up with a baby sloth, they’re missing out on five far more interesting (albeit less adorable) members of the animal kingdom.





DEATHSTALKER SCORPION


To find this dangerous creature, head to the deserts of North Africa or the Middle East. Besides being yellow and relatively lightly armored, it’s not a typical scorpion species, as its sting is very poisonous and very painful. If stung, the neurotoxins it releases will cause intense pain followed by an agonizing fever before you finally slip into a coma.





BLUE-RINGED OCTOPUS


You will need to go underwater to find this member of the Venomous Five. And being about the size of a ping-pong ball with the ability to camouflage itself (the vibrant blue rings on its skin aren’t visible unless provoked), it is going to be a hard one to locate. Be very cautious as you check the coral and rock crevices for this tiny wonder. There is no known antidote for the venom contained in the animal’s saliva. One bite and you better hope you’re near a respirator, because you will need assistance breathing until the toxins work their way out of your system, which usually takes about twenty-four hours. If you’re still up for the challenge, its habitat is shallow Pacific tide pools, anywhere from Australia to Japan.





INLAND TAIPAN


All this snake wants is to be left alone. Unfortunately, as the world’s most venomous land snake, it has found its way onto the list. Found in the heart of Australia, its scales change color depending on the season, so you will need to be mindful of what month it is before you go searching for this serpent. If it is winter, you should be on the lookout for the dark brown scales. If it is summer, you want to watch for a snake that is more of an olive green. The bite from an inland taipan contains enough venom to kill a hundred humans, but as mentioned, it is a rather docile creature. So look; don’t poke it with a stick.





POISON DART FROG


While it’s technically not “venomous,” this brightly colored little creature could still ruin your day if you get too close. Instead of injecting its toxin from fangs like others on the list, it secretes it from its skin. In order to see one in the wild, you’ll need to travel to the rainforests of Central and South America. Ones in captivity do not secret poison (at least not much), since the toxic chemical emission is actually a buildup of the poisonous chemicals from their natural prey, which they are not typically given in captivity.

By the way (though it might not make much difference to you if you’re bitten or stung), venom and poison are not the same. The two words are often used interchangeably, but they’re very different. Venom is injected (usually from fangs or barbs), while poison is ingested.





SYDNEY FUNNEL-WEB SPIDER


Stay Down Under to catch a glimpse of the last of the Venomous Five. The Sydney funnel-web spider is native to—you guessed it—Sydney, Australia. Only males contain the venom component that is dangerous to your nervous system. But they are also the ones that leave the burrow in order to find a mate and can sometimes wander into homes. They can be about three inches in length and typically have a glossy bluish-black to dark plum color. If you do end up spotting one, stay away. This species of arachnid is quite aggressive and will attack.





64. BREAK 200 MPH ON THE AUTOBAHN




There are few places on the planet where you can drive a passenger car as fast as you want; the German autobahn is one of them. However, there are only a handful of production cars in the world capable of breaking the magic 200 mph barrier.





BUY SOME WHEELS


You need to spend a minimum of $120,000 to buy a car that will break 200 mph, more like $150,000 if you want something classy like a Bugatti Chiron. A cheaper alternative would be to spend about $50,000 on the car and hundreds of hours (and dollars) in the workshop to adapt something like a Corvette.

There’s a world of difference between doing 180 and 200 because the wind resistance increases exponentially, and you need a third more power to gain 10 percent more speed.

By the way, the first production car that could exceed 200 mph was the Ferrari F40, launched in 1987. Next came Ruf’s 469 bhp CTR “Yellowbird,” and then the McLaren F1 hit 242 mph in 1993, which no one could beat for a decade. Now we are entering another golden age with several production automobiles closing in on the 300-plus mph barrier. The current land-speed record for a production automobile is 277, set in 2017 in a Koenigsegg Agera RS.





HIT THE ROAD


Before your attempt, familiarize yourself with a flat, dry stretch of autobahn, because even the slightest curve can become a challenge when you’re traveling at very high speeds. Also, travel in the early morning, midmorning, or at night when the roads are quietest.

Get someone else to check the speedometer because if you take your eye off the road for a second, you will travel blindly 293 feet (you travel a mile every eighteen seconds). If someone a quarter of a mile away pulled out into your lane doing 50 mph, you’d hit them in less than six seconds if you didn’t ease off the gas and apply the brake.

More than half of the German autobahn has no speed restrictions, so you’ve got about 6,835 miles to play around with. The autobahn is actually safer than US highways because drivers have to be eighteen before they can get behind the wheel, the testing is more rigorous, the left lane is only used for passing, the road surface is better quality, and, let’s be honest, Germans drive better and safer cars.





65. TRAVEL TO THE FUTURE


Time traveling into the future is easier than traveling into the past. Dystopian writers have predicted the horrors that await us there, but the future can’t be that bad, because it hasn’t happened yet; paradoxically, this is precisely the reason why it’s theoretically possible to go there.





MODELS OF FUTURE TIME TRAVEL


There are two models of future time travel. In one model, you leave your present and travel to a future in which you are only present as the future traveler, since you have removed yourself from the present (and hence the future) at your moment of travel. In other words, if you had a driving test tomorrow and you wanted to see if you passed or failed, you would travel in time to tomorrow, where you would discover that you hadn’t taken the test at all, since you had inexplicably gone missing.

In the second model, you are transported to your own personal future, where you may even meet your future self (so long as you don’t travel beyond your own natural lifetime). You could even shake hands with yourself on your deathbed.





METHODS OF FUTURE TIME TRAVEL


Physics allows for future time travel without building a fictional time machine. Simply travel away from the Earth at close to the speed of light for a few years, then turn around and travel back home. Einstein showed that time is relative to the observer, so you will find that scores of years have passed on Earth, and everyone you ever knew will be dead. Alternatively, take up temporary residence inside a hollow high-mass object or just outside the event horizon of a black hole.





THREE THINGS THAT SHOULDN’T HAPPEN IN THE FUTURE


If life is a computer-generated illusion and human beings are nothing more than wet cells that generate electricity for their mechanical overlords, and you manage to stop four sentinels just by thinking it, don’t let anyone reason that you could pull it off with a sloppy answer like: “The Matrix was actually a documentary and you are the One.”

If Kevin Costner’s Waterworld is the reality and drinking water has become one of the world’s rarest commodities, explain to the raft dwellers of the future that they can desalinate sea water by simply boiling it and then collecting the condensation.

If you’ve been to the year 3000, where not much has changed but they live underwater, you will not encounter the great-great-great-granddaughter of anyone from your own time—she would have died during the twenty-third century.





66. PLACE A GYPSY CURSE




Due to the negative connotations associated with the term “Gypsy,” many Indo-Aryan people prefer the term “Romany” instead. A Romany curse can either be an insult or the effective action of some power, distinguished solely by the quality of adversity that it brings. Three conditions have to be met in order for your Romany curse to work.

You must believe that the person you are cursing has transgressed an acceptable code of conduct. You can’t curse someone if she’s done nothing wrong. Kidnapping your first-born child, sleeping with your spouse, or setting fire to your home would all qualify. Microwaving fish in the office kitchenette? That’s borderline.

The person you have cursed must be made aware that he has been cursed. Half the point of the curse is for the offending party to know that you’re the one causing his unrelenting misery. It’s no fun if he blames God, aliens, or plain old dumb luck.

He must also believe that you have the power and responsibility to lay a curse on him. Think of it like fairy dust—it only works if you believe it will.



Here are some choice Romany curses to get you started, although it is more effective to invent your own:

“May you wander over the face of the Earth forever, never sleep twice in the same bed, never drink water twice from the same well, and never cross the same river twice in a year.” (This is probably the most famous Romany curse in the world.)

“May your daughter’s hair grow thick and abundant, all over her face.”

“May the IRS disallow all your deductions.”

“May the fleas of a thousand dead camels infest one of your erogenous zones.”

“May all of your friends unfollow you on social media.”

“May your every wish be granted.” (This one is particularly diabolical, because there’s always some awful twist that makes their wishes turn into nightmares.)

“May your left ear wither and fall into your right pocket.”

“May your appearance match the ugliness inside your heart.”

“May you get slightly fatter every year.” (You know, like a normal person.)





67. STREAK AT A SPORTING EVENT


Streaking is usually defined as “the nonsexual act of taking off one’s clothes and running naked through a public place.” Streaking should be harmless fun. Sure, you’ll get arrested and heavily fined, but that shouldn’t stop you from relishing your five minutes of fame. Above all, remember to smile.





CROWD PLEASER


Remember you are primarily streaking for your own enjoyment and to show off to your friends. If the crowd is with you, then that’s a bonus. The reception you receive from the crowd is mostly dependent on how confident and energetic you are, so now’s the time to shrug off every shred of self-consciousness you normally have and own it.

Just remember that nothing gets the crowd going more than a streaker who evades capture. So before you hop onto the field, consider extending the time you can stay out in your birthday suit by greasing yourself up with popcorn butter first—stadium security won’t know what hit ’em.





YOU’LL BE NAKED FOREVER


The good news is that broadcasters generally don’t film streakers, so it is unlikely that you will appear on TV. However, you can bet your bare ass that everyone with a smartphone (so everyone) will be broadcasting you to the far corners of the Internet within seconds.

If you’re not okay with your naked body being shared around for all eternity, then you might want to keep your clothes on and order another beer.





PICK YOUR MOMENT


Leave at least half an hour between eating a large meal and streaking, as the crowd wants to see the bouncing beauty of the human body, not the contents of your stomach.

To keep the crowd on your side, time your streak so that it doesn’t interfere with direct play, for example, while the field goal kicker is lining up for an extra point or while a soccer player is taking a free kick. Better yet, use the crowd’s cheers (or boos) immediately after a score as cover to sneak your way onto the field.

Whatever you do, don’t jump the gun and get naked too soon. The last thing you want is to get tackled by security while you’re still in the bleachers.

Ideal Streaker Outfit

Trench coat

Tear-away track pants

Button-down shirt

Zip-up hoodie





68. BUILD FREAKISH MUSCLES




Irrespective of age and gender, every physique has the capacity to build big muscle, provided it is trained and given rest at proper periods. There are countless build-rock-hard-muscle formulas out there, promising guaranteed satisfaction or your money back, accompanied by pictures of guys who have added thirty pounds of muscle in just twelve weeks. Ignore them. Here are some genuine muscle-building tips to help you get awesome and ripped.

Allow your body adequate time to recuperate between training sessions. One of the pitfalls of “hard gainers” (those who build muscle slowly) is overtraining. Go to the gym for an hour three to four times a week. Never go two days in a row. This allows your body time to rest, keeps you from getting bored, and enables you to be more focused when you are working out.

Perform low reps with high weights, but remember that good form is more important than the amount of weight you are lifting. You can only target muscle if you can control the weight. If your dumbbell curls look like jerks, you’ve got bad style. Lower the weight and stop trying to impress other gym rats.

Use free weights instead of machine-and-cable exercises.

Keep your training fresh by varying the exercises, the number of reps, the tempo of the reps, and by gradually increasing the weight. You’ve got to mix things up to make maximum gains. Train to total muscle failure on at least a few sets every workout.

Don’t waste time training your abs to get a six-pack. Fat is burned all over the body when you train, not just in certain areas. Lose weight and your six-pack will appear.

Eat at least two grams of protein per pound of body weight. If you weigh 150 pounds, you need to eat at least three hundred grams of protein. Eat a small meal every two to three hours.

Drink at least eight glasses of water a day and get at least eight hours of sleep each night.

Don’t inject yourself daily with HGH (human growth hormone), a 191-amino acid, single-chain polypeptide that occurs naturally in the human body and is produced by the pituitary gland. They may contribute to freakish muscle growth, but the risk of heart disease just isn’t worth it.





WHEN IN DOUBT, FAKE IT


Once reserved almost exclusively for breast augmentation, the practice of using silicone implants to give the illusion of muscular growth is rising. Calf implants are especially popular, as they are a difficult muscle to grow naturally.





69. HITCHHIKE FROM L.A. TO NYC




Just how crazy, optimistic, or suicidal do you have to be to hitchhike in an age where there are millions of Uber and Lyft drivers just a few swipes away? Actually, it’s not all that bad—if you know what you’re doing.

Before you start, buy some maps so you can figure out which rides are actually taking you closer to your destination rather than to some crazy trucker’s lockup. True, it’s old school, but you can’t be 100 percent confident that you’ll get service everywhere to plot your route on your phone.

Wear bright, clean clothing so that drivers can see you, but not so bright that drivers think that you are a nutcase.

Don’t hitch from the center of town; get a bus to the edge of town instead. You’re more likely to get a ride out of town that way, instead of just down the street.

Choose a hitching spot where you can be seen clearly from a long way off, and where drivers can stop safely and legally. Hitching on the highway is illegal, but you’ll have to weigh the benefit of traffic flow versus getting arrested.

It’s safer to travel with a companion, but being part of a trio won’t get you very far at all. Also, try to avoid squeezing into a full car where you’re outnumbered.

If you have waited an hour, start walking in the direction you want to go. Sometimes it’s even better to accept a short ride in the wrong direction to a better pickup point than wait in a bad place. Be prepared to do a lot of walking and stay cheerful. If you treat a lift as a bonus, you’ll have a better mental attitude.

Pack plenty of food and water, as you never know where your next rest stop will be—and gas stations are generally more expensive than supermarkets.

Don’t give the driver your final destination; this leaves you an excuse to be dropped off if you feel uncomfortable.

A highway rest area is a good place to ask around for a lift while people are refueling their cars. It avoids the illegality of hitching on the highway itself. Expect plenty of rejections, but it does give both parties more of a chance to size each other up. However, many hitchhikers avoid rest areas because there’s a greater risk of being picked up by a serial mugger or rapist. The more commercial rest areas on toll roads are probably your safest option.



Hitchhiking, sadly, can show off the worst sides of humanity. In 2015, a robot named hitchBOT was sent on a hitchhiking expedition from Boston to San Francisco. It made it as far as Philadelphia before it was dismembered by local miscreants.





70. JOIN THE MILE-HIGH CLUB


The MHC is always open to new members. There is no dress code, membership fee, or stuffy protocol; in fact, the only entry requirement is engaging in sexual intercourse on board an airplane while it is in flight, at least one mile (5,280 feet) above the ground.





FOUNDING MEMBERS


The founders of the MHC are thought to be the pilot Lawrence Sperry and Mrs. Waldo Polk, while on board a Curtiss flying boat en route to New York in November 1916. Sperry engaged the autopilot, which he designed himself, and got to work with the married woman. Virgin Atlantic Airways owner Richard Branson claims to have joined the MHC when he was nineteen by having sex with a married woman in the toilet (he didn’t know she was married at the time).





LEGAL IMPLICATIONS


You can be arrested for public indecency if your coupling takes place in view of other passengers. If you get it on in the toilet or in one of the double beds in a luxury airliner, then the legality depends on the airline you are flying with, your departure and destination points, and which country you were flying over at the time.





DISCRETION IS KEY


If you think you’re fooling anybody by draping a blanket over yourselves and trying to be quiet, think again. Everybody within six rows of your seat will know exactly what’s going on, and somebody is going to complain about it (or film it).

There’s one place, and one place only, where you should be having sex on a plane: the bathroom. Sure, it’s not the most spacious or luxurious place to bump uglies, but at least it has four walls and a lock.

Wait until the flight attendants start passing out drinks or snacks before you make your move. Other passengers will be blocked by the service cart and won’t be able to make it to the bathroom to blow up your spot as easily.





CHARTER A FLIGHT


Part of the thrill of having sex in the air, apart from the heightened sensations many report due to the reduced air pressure, is the illicit nature of the act and the chance of getting caught. However, you can always charter a flight if you are particularly risk-averse but still want to get it on in the air.





71. BECOME A CLIFF-DIVING THRILL SEEKER




Cliff diving or “tombstoning” leaves little room for error. When you jump from any height below around 1,500 feet, your body continues to accelerate as you plummet to the water (above that height and you’ll reach terminal velocity and will stay at a constant 120 mph for the remainder of your free fall). The higher the dive, the faster you’ll be traveling before impact, and the more force you’ll have to reckon with when it comes time to enter the water. From a height of eighty feet, the impact as you hit the water is the equivalent of slamming into concrete from a height of twenty feet, so your entry has to be correct or you’re in serious trouble. In 2015, Swiss cliff diver Lazaro Schaller set the world record for the highest cliff jump when he dove off a cliff more than 192 feet above the water in Maggia, Ticino, Switzerland.

Here are the top six places to get your cliff diving on:





KAHEKILI’S LEAP, LANAI, HAWAII


This is the birthplace of cliff diving. Kahekili was an eighteenth-century king who instructed his nakoa warriors to display their bravery and loyalty by free falling seventy feet over jagged rocks into the clear blue ocean below. The practice was called lele kawa.





WOLFGANGSEE, AUSTRIA


For a time each summer the cliffs at Hochzeitskreuz, Wolfgangsee played host to the Red Bull Cliff Diving World Series where the fourteen best cliff divers in the world jumped from a height of eighty-eight feet in front of three thousand fans. They somersaulted and twisted in the air for 2.5 seconds before hitting the water at 55 mph.





LA QUEBRADA, ACAPULCO, MEXICO


The spot’s name means “The Break” in Spanish, and this is one of the top tourist attractions in Mexico. The cliff jump is sixty feet high. Divers must time their jump precisely because the water level changes as the waves roll in and out of the cove. Formed in 1934, La Quebrada Cliff Divers still perform death-defying cliff jumps nightly while holding torches.





PONTE BROLLA, VALLEMAGGIA, SWITZERLAND


The cliff diving European championships is held here regularly, but there is a range of diving heights from junior (thirty feet) to more challenging (sixty-five feet). If splitting your head or feet open on impact isn’t painful enough, the icy water will probably give you a heart attack.





PORTOVENERE, ITALY


Portovenere is a beautiful medieval town on the Ligurian coast of Italy, south of the Cinque Terre known worldwide for its natural beauty. There are lots of cliff-diving venues on this coast, but this is one of the best.





RED ROCKS PARK, SOUTH BURLINGTON, VERMONT


Vermont is loaded with good cliff diving, but Red Rocks Park offers drops of up to seventy-six feet, with narrow rock walls to increase the chances of fatal injury. Jumping into the icy waters here requires even greater precision than other dive sites.





72. EXECUTE A BAR HUSTLE




You’ve seen it a dozen times in movies: a streetwise protagonist just scraping by cons a few bucks here and there to make ends meet. He walks out with grocery money, and his mark never even realizes he was hustled—no harm, no foul. Sure, 50 percent of the time our roguish protagonist gets roughed up in the alley on his way out, but what’s life without a little risk?





DO YOUR HOMEWORK


In order for the bar hustle to work, you need to be skilled enough at pool, darts, or shuffleboard to not only beat the average bar goer but also to lose on purpose without making it obvious. Which is harder than it sounds.

If you had enough money to buy your own equipment, you wouldn’t need to hustle. So the first step is finding an empty bar where you can practice. It might take you a few weeks (or even months) to perfect your game, but keep in mind that you don’t have to be the best there ever was. Just better than average.





PICK YOUR MARK(S)


See the guy alone in the corner assembling a pool cue he brought himself? Yeah, stay away from that guy. In fact, you’ll want to avoid anybody who came by themselves—they very well may be pulling the same hustle you are.

Your ideal marks are a group of two or three guys, preferably wearing business suits and drinking expensive cocktails. They’ve got money to spare, a penchant for gambling (if they’re Wall Street types), and those drinks will catch up to them quick. By working multiple people at once, you also increase the odds that at least one of them will take the bait.





DON’T SH*T WHERE YOU EAT


Before you execute your first hustle, document every bar within a ten-mile radius of your house and never, under any circumstances, hustle at any of them. If you ever get caught hustling, you’ll need to give that particular bar a wide berth indefinitely—which can be pretty tough when you live two blocks away.





SLOW AND STEADY


If you walk right up, slam $100 on the table, and ask, “Who wants to play some pool?” you might as well wear a shirt that says, “I’m a hustler.” When you first approach your marks, you need to sell yourself as someone just looking to play some games and pass the time.

Start by offering to buy the first round. This establishes trust and gives the impression you’re there to spend money not take it. It also gives you the opportunity to take orders, head to the bar, and return with a gin and tonic—hold the gin—for yourself, and extra-dry martinis for everybody else.

Ideally, you want your marks to be the ones escalating the situation at every turn. The more it seems like it was their idea to play for money in the first place, the less likely you are to get caught. That said, if your marks just aren’t moving the conversation in that direction, suggesting that the “loser” buys the next round is relatively harmless—especially if that loser is you.





GO BIG, AND GO HOME


Nobody likes to lose, and now’s the time to fake a bit of a tantrum and threaten to go home. Thinking you’re the sucker, and not them, your marks will likely offer to raise the stakes to get you to stay. Now you’ve got them in the palm of your hand, and it’s off to the races.

Just keep in mind, they’ve seen you losing left and right all night, so keep it close—but not too close. If they think you got lucky, you’ll get to leave through the front door. If they think they got hustled, you’re going out the bathroom window.





73. BREAK UP A COUPLE




In a perfect world, we’d absolutely adore every significant other our friends and family introduced us to. In reality, however, the ratio of perfect angel to demon hellspawn hovers somewhere around 1:10.

Most of the time, the issue sorts itself out on its own and the relationship implodes without the need for outside intervention. But every now and then, drastic measures simply need to be taken. For the greater good.





THERE’S PLENTY OF FISH


One of the primary reasons people stay in failing relationships is they simply don’t believe they can do better. Sure, their current partner collects toenail clippings and thinks the local taco place is an acceptable anniversary destination, but at least it’s better than being single (it’s not). Your best hope for separating them is to demonstrate what else is out there.

The next time the subject’s partner is out of town, track down every single friend, coworker, and acquaintance that you can find and throw a party. If their partner is as awful as you think they are, just having a conversation with someone who doesn’t smell like sour milk could be all it takes.





INITIATE COVERT OPS


Consider everything you hate about the subject’s significant other that’s flaunted out in the open. Now just imagine what heinous things they’re hiding! With a little sleuthing, you might just be able to uncover something so twisted and unforgivable that your subject will have to end things.

A simple background check can reveal everything from prior criminal records to previous marriages, and the sky’s the limit if you’re willing to hire a private investigator. If you can manage to get access to them, a few minutes alone with their phone or computer could turn up evidence of infidelity, obscure fetishes (not that there’s anything inherently wrong with that), or unmanageable credit card debt.

How low you’re willing to sink in the interest of saving your subject from themselves is up to you, but under no circumstances can they ever discover you actively tried to destroy their relationship. If you’re caught, you will just unite them in an “us against the world” bubble and ostracize yourself in the process.





RALLY THE TROOPS


When it comes to ousting a parasitic mate, sometimes you just can’t do it alone. The good news is that it’s almost impossible you are the only one harboring deep-seated loathing. A full-on intervention might do more harm than good, but there’s a lot to be said for a united front.

Once you’ve got everyone on the same page, you can start coordinating a multipronged attack:

Phase 1: Isolation—The more time they spend apart, the better. Stop inviting the partner to any and all gatherings.

Phase 2: Death by a Thousand Cuts—As a group, focus on a particular shortcoming and casually drop it into conversation. Once the subject starts showing signs of fatigue, move on to a different shortcoming.

Phase 3: Gaslighting—Remember that time their partner hit on the subject’s sister? It’s not a lie if ten people insist it happened (and to be fair, it probably did).





PICK UP THE PIECES


Sure, you broke up a relationship, but you’re not a monster.

Now that she’s single again, the subject needs your support now more than ever. So kick back, plan a movie night (or twelve) together, and try to steer her in a better direction next time—ain’t nobody got time to do this twice.





74. ESCAPE FROM THE TRUNK OF A CAR


Regardless of how you came to be trapped in the boot of a car, there’s a 99.99 percent chance that you’d like to get out of there immediately, if not sooner. So let’s focus on the here and now and escape instead of dwelling on how you got into this mess.





DON’T PANIC


As with most stressful situations, keeping a positive attitude will help you remain calm and focus on the task at hand. So start by looking on the bright side.

For one, you’re alive in the trunk of a car—which is infinitely better than the alternative.

Second, one of the benefits (perhaps the only benefit) of being locked in a trunk is the secluded nature of the space means your captors won’t realize you’re escaping until it’s already too late!

So take a deep breath, count to ten, and get ready to bust out.





ASSESS THE SITUATION


At this stage you know you’re locked in a trunk, but whose?

Were you kidnapped? Is the car moving? Are you alone in the car? Is this a prank?

Some of these questions you won’t be able to answer right away, but whether or not the car is moving, and whether it’s occupied by anyone else should be clear. Once you’ve figured out those two crucial bits of information, it’s time to acquaint yourself with your surroundings.

The average sedan has anywhere from twelve to eighteen cubic feet of trunk space, so this process shouldn’t take long. Keep an eye out for anything that might help you escape (or defend yourself later).

If you’re lucky, and your kidnapper is inexperienced, you might find a glow-in-the-dark emergency release cord specifically designed for people in your unique situation. If you do, thank whatever deity you choose to believe in and resist the urge to pull it (for now).

Helpful Trunk Items

Tire iron: pry open the latch and/or knock out the taillight

Jumper cables: dangle out the taillight hole and signal other drivers

Car jack: use brute force to shove the door open

Blankets: stay warm

Flashlight: see what you’re doing/signal other drivers

Road flares: threaten the kidnappers with mutually assured destruction (this is a bluff, but they don’t know that)





PLAN AND EXECUTE YOUR EXIT


Whether your search has produced a wealth of useful tools or a single discarded tortilla chip, it’s time to get moving.





IF THE CAR IS STOPPED


If you’re confident you are alone in the vehicle, focus all your efforts on getting the door open and making as much noise as possible in the process. Depending on the model of car, you may be able to push the seats down and gain access to the interior and then out the passenger doors to freedom.

Once you’re out, don’t waste time questioning why your captor(s) left you unattended. Run first, ask questions later.





IF THE CAR IS MOVING


The only thing worse than being locked in a trunk is falling out of one at 70 mph. So stay put for now and try to signal the outside world. If you can, push out the brake light to create a cavity to stick your hand through. A disembodied hand waving from a taillight is the universal sign for “This is not normal, save me!”

If all else fails, wait for the car to slow down, pry open the door, get into the fetal position, and gently roll yourself out of the trunk, using your arms and hands to protect your head.





75. DUMPSTER DIVE




If there’s one thing humans are great at, it’s throwing stuff away. The average person discards an estimated 4.4 pounds of material every single day—roughly one pound of which is food waste.

Sure, the vast majority of that trash is, well, trash. But, if you’re willing to swallow your pride and get a little dirty, then there’s no telling what treasures you might find.





GEAR UP


If you’re going to spend your days rummaging around in literal filth, it’s imperative that you protect yourself. Salmonella, E. coli, and Listeria are just a few of the dangerous bacteria you might encounter, not to mention a laundry list of viruses and parasites. At the minimum, you should have:

Waterproof clothing

Surgical mask

Shower cap

Waterproof boots

Gloves

Goggles



A truck is ideal for carting away dumpster treasures, but may not be a realistic option for everyone. For more economic dumpster divers, a shopping cart or wheelbarrow will do in a pinch.





DIVE SMARTER, NOT HARDER


Not all dumpsters are created equal. For example, a restaurant dumpster will be filled to the brim with tempting food…but almost none of it will be safe to eat. Supermarkets, on the other hand, are far more likely to discard food that’s still sealed and salvageable.

Depending on what you’re in the market for, some ideal locations include:

Apartment complexes: tons of furniture (particularly at the end of the month when old tenants move out)

Office buildings: easily repairable electronics (sometimes they’re not even damaged, just outdated)

Convenience stores: snacks for days (the ratio of perishable to nonperishable waste is far more favorable than a supermarket)

College campuses: everything you can imagine (if it can’t fit in a dorm room, it’s going in the trash…regardless of whether it still works)





SORT TRASH FROM TREASURE


As the saying goes, “One man’s trash is another man’s treasure.” But in reality, at least 90 percent of what’s in a dumpster really does belong there. Knowing what makes up that 10 percent will make it much easier to get in, find the good stuff, and get out as quickly as possible.

Trash

Any/all perishable food: If it needs to be refrigerated, it’s simply not safe to eat. Same goes for if it’s not sealed in some kind of air-tight container.

Medicine: It may be labeled as Advil, but it’s not worth the risk that the previous owner reused the bottle for something else.

Porous furniture (mattresses, couches, etc.): Two words: bed bugs.



Treasure

All electronics: Even if it’s not repairable, you can use the parts.

Wood furniture: Easy to restore and flip.

Nonperishable food: People often confuse “sell by” dates with “expiration” dates and throw things away prematurely.

Recyclables: Some states will reimburse you for cans and bottles.





FROM TRASH TO CASH


It’s possible to furnish an entire home with reclaimed dumpster pieces, but you’ll rapidly cross the line from collector to hoarder if you don’t start unloading some of your dumpster bounty. Sure, you could send it back from whence it came, but why not profit off it?

Depending on the item, you could simply sell it at a garage sale or list it online as is. But even items that are already in decent shape will benefit from a little elbow grease.

A simple coat of paint can transform a $10 (or best offer) coffee table into a $100 (firm) listing. Found a phone with a busted screen? It’s maybe worth $100 at best. Replace the screen yourself for another $50? Now it could fetch as much as $400.





76. TRAIN A GUARD DOG


Training an attack dog takes years, and is something best left to law enforcement professionals. Training a guard dog, however, can be done in a matter of weeks, and is much safer for you and your family. They’re all bark, and no bite—but the guy breaking into your house doesn’t need to know that.





BIGGER IS BETTER


When selecting a guard dog, you’re looking for two key traits:

Intelligence (ease of training)

Size (intimidation factor)





BARK FIRST, ASK QUESTIONS LATER


Most dogs will naturally bark when they’re uncertain about a person or situation, and you’ll want to encourage this behavior to train your pup to bark on command.

Whenever your dog barks, use the command and offer a treat/praise. Depending on how smart the dog is, it should pick up on the word association within a few days. To give your dog an off switch, repeat the process with a quiet command, but save your praise and treats for when it stops barking.





Choosing a Bark Command


Consider something like “attack” or “kill.” Even though your dog is only trained to act aggressive when it hears the command, a dog that suddenly starts barking when their owner says something like “sic balls” adds an extra layer of terror.

Once your dog is comfortable barking on demand, you can encourage it to bark at strangers by issuing the command—and providing praise/treats—whenever there’s a knock on the door. If your friends are willing, you can even stage mock break-ins to further reinforce the behavior. As long as you’re consistent, your faithful companion should begin barking on its own in anticipation of the command, even when you aren’t there to give it.





TAKE IT TO THE STREETS


Now that you’re confident your dog will sound the alarm at home, it’s time to bring out the inner Cujo when you’re out and about. At this stage, it’s helpful to have a partner to act as the “menacing stranger.”

Over the course of a few days—or weeks if necessary—have your partner up the ante and progress from moving toward you in an intimidating manner to pretending to physically assault you. Each time, reinforce the bark and quiet commands to let your dog know when it’s time to put on its angry face. Just be sure to only issue the bark command when your partner acts aggressively—otherwise your dog will just assume everyone who walks by is a threat!





77. RIG A RAFFLE




Fundraising raffles where the winners are chosen at random are legal in almost all fifty states. Alabama, however, does not allow raffles of any kind where the prize is awarded based on chance. Prizes can only be awarded legally if they are won in a game of skill, such as a carnival game. Rigging the raffle at your town fair might be 10,000 times less lucrative than rigging a state lottery, but it’s also 100,000 times easier. And 1,000,000 times less likely to lead to serious jail time.





THE INSIDE JOB


You could bang your head against a wall for weeks trying to come up with the perfect plan to make sure you’re holding the winning ticket, but by far the easiest way to leave with the prize is to make sure you’re in charge of the selection process.

Whoever’s butt you have to kiss in order to pull the winning ticket out of the jar, make sure you kiss the heck out of it. Alternatively, you could offer to plan the entire raffle from start to finish—although that’s a lot more work than simply sticking your hand in a jar and pulling out a piece of paper.

Regardless of how you work your magic, though, it’s going to be incredibly conspicuous if you “just happen” to pull your own raffle ticket. If you go this route, you’re going to have to enlist an accomplice to serve as the winner. When the time comes, palm their ticket and use some sleight of hand to “pick it” out of the jar—then split your winnings later.





BALLOT STUFFING


If for some reason you can’t get control over the winner selection process, another alternative is to stuff the jar with your own tickets. It’s not foolproof, but it will tip the odds in your favor. Of course, you could do this on the up and up by simply purchasing more raffle tickets, but that approach is for suckers.

Even though raffle prizes can be worth several hundred—or even several thousand—dollars, they’re rarely very secure. All you have to do to acquire as many free raffle tickets as you want is to stop by the event the day of the raffle and determine the color and variety of tickets they’re using. Once you know that, it’s just a simple matter of hitting up your local party store to buy the same ones.

Now, when nobody’s looking, you can dump your own tickets in and wait for them to call the winner. It’s true you may look a little suspicious as you comb through your ticket stash, but everybody nearby will just assume you’re incredibly generous—instead of incredibly petty and cheap.





78. GET DRUNK FOR FREE




There’s no such thing as a free lunch. A free drink (or ten), on the other hand, is well within your grasp. That is, if you’re willing to lie, cheat, and completely embarrass yourself in order to get it. (It’s well worth it too. Consider that the average American spends about 1 percent of their annual gross income on alcohol, or roughly $565 each year.)





IT’S NOT STEALING IF IT’S FREE


The first stop on your $0 binge session is to hit up a local networking event. If they don’t have an open bar, they’ll usually offer attendees a drink ticket or two at the door. While it’s easier to blend in if you actually have some interest in the field, it really isn’t critical. You’re there to get your buzz on, not further your career.





HAPPY…WHATEVER THIS IS


Next up, you’re on the hunt for someone’s birthday, a going-away party, or even a bar mitzvah. It doesn’t matter what they’re celebrating, as long as they’re serving alcohol and it’s free. While you could just wander from bar to bar until you find a particularly celebratory group, it’s far more efficient to call ahead and try to book your own “last minute” party. Once you find a bar or restaurant that can’t accommodate you because they’re already booked, then you know where to go.





I’M WITH THEM


You’re anywhere from three to four drinks deep at this point, so you’re probably ready to throw caution to the wind a bit. You’re also not likely capable of any elaborate ruses, so this one’s more of a smash and grab approach.

Walk into a crowded bar.

Find a large group that probably has a tab open.

Order two shots of your preferred alcohol.

Put it on their tab.

Down your shots and walk nonchalantly, but quickly, out of the bar.



As long as the bar is crowded enough, the bartender isn’t going to have time to give you the third degree. And since you ordered shots instead of beer or cocktails, you’ll be gone before anybody notices what happened.





LAST CALL


At this point in the night, you’re probably already drunk. So mission accomplished, congratulations. But if you still aren’t satisfied, there’s still time to sneak in a few final drinks at someone else’s expense.

How you approach the end of the night is entirely dependent on your own skills and attributes. If you are:

Young and/or attractive: Be patient; somebody will buy you something soon.

Friendly and gregarious: Make friends and offer to get the next round if they get the first (don’t worry, there won’t be a next round).

Sad and pitiable: If you’re pathetic enough, the bartender might give you one on the house.

Slick and conniving: You can make up a story about getting dumped, losing your job, or any number of other excuses why somebody needs to buy you a drink, stat.





79. GET PAID TO DO NOTHING


Most people believe that the American dream is to work hard, and slowly but steadily climb the corporate ladder. In reality, those people are suckers. The “real” American dream is to sit at your desk day after day, looking busy, but secretly goofing off 99.9 percent of the time—and still getting paid.





FOCUS ON JOBS NOBODY UNDERSTANDS


There are some jobs where if you stop working, you’ll immediately get canned. A waiter can no sooner hide in the supply closet for an entire shift than an air traffic controller can play games on her phone and hope the pilots “just figure it out.” There are, however, plenty of jobs where that isn’t the case.

The ideal slacker job is one where everybody on staff agrees it’s important but almost nobody has a clue what the job actually entails. The less tuned in to your chosen occupation everybody else is, the easier it will be to skate by while doing as little actual work as humanly possible.

Some job titles to consider:

Sales executive

Public relations manager

Anything in IT

Content strategist

Internal communications manager

Solutions architect

Quality assurance specialist

Business analyst





BECOME THE FORGOTTEN EMPLOYEE


Most all-star employees make it a point to get as much face time as possible with their coworkers and actively broadcast how hard they’re working. Your mission is to do the exact opposite—to become invisible.

Over a period of months, gradually reduce the amount of time you spend chatting by the watercooler and going out to lunch with other people in the office. When you do leave your desk, move quickly and with a purpose. This will make you look busy and also make it difficult for anyone to pin you down to talk about anything work related.

Before long, half the office will think you no longer work there, and the other half will assume that you’re just too busy to come up for air.

While you will almost certainly get fired if you’re caught, another alternative is to outsource your day-to-day tasks to offshore contractors for a fraction of your salary. Just make sure you aren’t leaking sensitive company information in the process.





AUTOMATE AS MUCH AS POSSIBLE


If you do nothing long enough, eventually somebody is going to investigate the situation. You can get ahead of this though, by trickling out small nuggets of what appears to be real work, but is actually just auto-generated subterfuge.





Email


Many email providers allow you to create templates and use them to reply to emails that meet certain filter requirements. For example, if the email comes from your boss, you can set a ten-minute delay—to account for the time it takes to read and digest the email—and auto reply with some permutation of “thanks for bringing that to my attention, I’ll get right on it!”





Reports


You’d be astonished how many hours are spent manually updating existing reports that could easily be updated automatically. If you aren’t savvy enough to do this programmatically, it’s possible to pull data from other sources in most spreadsheet software. For example, when another department makes a change to their own spreadsheet, you can pull that data into your own reporting. To the casual observer, it will appear as if you’re doing this yourself.





Drop-In Detection


Despite major advances in interoffice communication, some people still insist on talking in person. Install a motion-sensitive camera with automated alerts near your desk to avoid being caught slacking off; or worse, not there at all.





80. WIN A FEUD WITH YOUR NEIGHBOR




In an ideal world, you’d have friendly relationships with all of your neighbors. You’d chat about the weather and local gossip and maybe even swap keys to look after each other’s houses when you’re on vacation. Unfortunately, we don’t live in an ideal world.

There’s always that one neighbor who just seems out to get you. Who feels 2:00 a.m. is the perfect time to try out his new leaf blower and your front lawn is really just a toilet for his dog. When no amount of civil discourse will make him change his ways, don’t get mad…get even.





DEFINE YOUR BORDER


If you share a property line with your enemy, now’s the time to head to city hall and find out where exactly that line is. You may discover the thing you’ve been feuding over (tree, shed, pool, etc.) has been on your property all along, and you’re free to do whatever you want with it.

Once you’ve established your boundaries, consider fortifying your border with a fence or tall shrubbery. Anything to keep them out of sight and out of mind.





UNITE THE NEIGHBORHOOD AGAINST THEM


As your war with your neighbor escalates, eventually the rest of your neighborhood is going to have to choose sides—and you want them to choose yours. The fewer allies your neighbor has, the harder it will be for them to continue the feud.

The best way to do this is simply by being the best neighbor you can be to everyone you aren’t feuding with.

Drop off baked goods under the guise of having made too many.

Mow their lawns if it’s summer or shovel their driveways if it’s winter “just because.”

Host a neighborhood potluck or barbecue and “forget” to invite your enemy.

Offer to babysit or pet sit for anyone who needs it.



The rest of the neighborhood will be so enamored with you, they’ll immediately take your side when push comes to shove.





MAKE THEIR LIFE A LIVING HELL


You want to drive home to your enemy that messing with you leads to pain and misery, but you also want to leave some reasonable doubt that you’re responsible.

Call the electric company posing as your neighbor and cancel their electricity. Bonus points if it’s a hot summer day.

Bribe the garbagemen to skip their house for a few months.

Spread birdseed all around their car in the middle of the night to encourage birds to poop on it.

Introduce an invasive species to their home (weeds, grubs, termites, bed bugs, etc.).

Hire somebody to place anonymous noise complaints at 3:00 a.m. every night for a month.



The sky’s the limit on how far you can take it, but just be sure not to get caught. The rest of the neighborhood thinks you’re the good guy—and you want to keep it that way.

Of course, the best way to beat your neighbor is not to have one. If you can handle the cold, moving to Alaska should significantly decrease your chances of having an awful neighbor. With an average population density of just 1.3 individuals per square mile, there’s more than enough room for everyone to keep to themselves.





81. GET A JOB YOU’RE NOT QUALIFIED FOR


If you’re one of the dispassionate majority who dread waking up in the morning, you’re not alone. A 2017 Gallup poll found that only 15 percent of workers worldwide are actively engaged at their jobs. You owe it to yourself to quit the daily grind and pursue your true passion. Qualifications be damned!





PAD YOUR RESUME


The first line of defense for the hiring manager is the resume, and if yours doesn’t match their ideal candidate, you’ll never even make it in for an interview. Dig deep into your work history and try to elevate any relevant experience you can. Even if you only did something once, there’s little harm in stretching the truth a bit about your daily responsibilities. As the saying goes, “Fake it till you make it.”

Before you claim you graduated summa cum laude from Harvard though, familiarize yourself with your local laws. While nobody is going to throw you in handcuffs for claiming to type one hundred words a minute when you only type forty, the same can’t be said for other areas of your resume.

For example, the penalty for falsifying education records in Texas is up to $2,000 in fines and six months in prison.





IT’S NOT WHAT YOU KNOW, BUT WHO


Say what you will about nepotism, the fact of the matter is that it works. Managers are more comfortable hiring employees they know or who were recommended by someone they trust.

With a little digging, you should be able to find a few employees. Once you know who they are, it’s a simple matter of tracking them down on social media and finding ways to cross paths with them. Alternatively, you could sign up for a few industry events and hope to strike networking gold there.





NAIL THE INTERVIEW


Before your interview, do as much research on the company and the position as you possibly can. Even if you don’t 100 percent understand what the position entails, you want to be able to speak intelligently about the industry.

In general, people love to talk about themselves, so be sure to have plenty of questions lined up to ask your interviewers. It shows you’re interested in the role, and will also help distract from the fact that you have absolutely no clue what you’re talking about.

If you’re asked a particularly tricky question, fake a bathroom emergency and use the time to look up the answer. Sure, you’ll forever be known as the incontinent employee, but who cares what they call you as long as you’re hired.





82. ABUSE DATING APP ALGORITHMS




There was a time where single people actually had to leave their homes to find other single people to date. Countless hours spent sitting at bars and wandering aimlessly through book stores, hoping Mr. or Ms. Right would just happen to waltz by. It was a darker age.

Now the entire courtship process takes place virtually, with advanced algorithms serving as robot matchmakers. Unless you know how to work the system, you’re going to get lost in a sea of single fish.





KNOW YOUR COMPETITION


Before you even start thinking about what to put in your own profile, you’re going to want to do some preliminary research on the other hopeful singles you’re competing against.

Imagine your ideal partner and create a profile for them—complete with stock photo and detailed bio. It shouldn’t take long for potential suitors to start flooding your in-box with messages (about 90 percent of which will be some version of “ ’sup, wanna smash?”). Scour their profiles to get a sense of the demographic you’re dealing with, and use that to help you stand out from the crowd. For example, if your fake profile’s in-box is wall-to-wall hipsters, consider a more conservative look for your own photos.





TELL TALL TALES, NOT LIES


About one out of every three people in the US is obese.

Fewer than 20 percent of American men are more than six feet tall.

Only 5 percent of adult women are naturally blonde.

Yet somehow, every single person on dating apps is a 6'2" Adonis or a rail-thin blonde bombshell. Most dating apps allow users to filter out undesirables based on various data points, so it’s important that you adjust your own attributes so they’re above common filter thresholds.

Add a few extra inches to your height, fudge your body type a smidge, and pad your income (for apps that collect that information). Everybody else is doing it, so you’re really just evening the playing field.

Just make sure you aren’t stretching the truth too far. If your date is expecting a tall, hedge-fund manager, they’re going to be more than a bit disappointed if a short, garden-hedge trimmer shows up instead.





MORE IS MORE


A dating app’s algorithm is only as strong as the information it has access to. If your ideal partner wants someone who is super into hiking, Broadway musicals, and scrapbooking, you’re never going to appear in their list if you don’t include those interests in your profile.

Make sure you stuff your bio to the brim with anything and everything you think will attract potential dates. It doesn’t matter if you’re actually into those things. What’s important is that the app thinks you’re compatible and broadcasts your profile to as many potential dates as possible.





Photos Dos and Don’ts


Do

Make your main image a close-up of your face: They shouldn’t have to squint to see what you look like.

Include a full body shot: If you don’t, they’ll assume you’re hiding something.

Use an action photo (hiking, swimming, running, etc.): Nobody likes a lazy lump.

Drop in a group photo: You want them to know you have friends.



Don’t

Max out your limit: The more photos you post, the more chances there are for prospects to find something they don’t like and move on.

Get lost in the crowd: Too many group photos and nobody will be able to figure out which one is you.

Feature your hot friend: You want to be the best-looking person in each photo you use.





83. GET OUT OF JURY DUTY




The ten-minute video they make you watch at the courthouse insists serving on a jury is an incredible honor reserved for the most patriotic of citizens. If you believe that, you were probably the kid in class who reminded the teacher she forgot to assign homework.

For everyone else, jury duty is more or less on par with having a root canal performed by a drunk chimpanzee. You know it’s going to hurt like hell, and it’s probably going to take longer than it should, so you’re willing to do anything imaginable to make it stop.





EXHAUST YOUR LEGITIMATE EXCUSES


In most states, there are several legitimate reasons that will get you out of jury duty:

Financial hardship: Pretty much the only benefit of being broke is you won’t have to sit on a jury if you can prove you can’t afford to miss work.

Felony conviction/indictment: Felons can’t sit on a jury, which is more of a perk than a punishment.

Lack of childcare: Don’t adopt a child just to skip jury duty, but if you already have one, you can defer your civic duty if there’s nobody else to babysit.

Student exemption: Skipping class is second nature for most college students, but the judge doesn’t need to know that.

You do not speak English: If you’re going to make this claim, don’t say “thank you” when you’re dismissed.



Even if you don’t have a legitimate excuse, most states will allow you to pass the buck onto your future self and reschedule for a future date—no questions asked. This can buy you a few months or up to a year in some cases.





BEND THE TRUTH, BUT DON’T LIE


Either before you appear for jury duty or at the courthouse, you will be asked to fill out a jury questionnaire. While it may be tempting to throw in bogus information to increase your chances of going home early, lying on the form could open you up to perjury charges if you’re caught. If you can legitimately demonstrate an inherent bias, then by all means disclose it here. But don’t make claims that you can’t back up if called upon.

The same goes for the jury selection process where the prosecution and defense lawyers weed out undesirable jurors. For example, if they ask if anybody has a loved one who was killed by a drunk driver, think twice before answering in the affirmative if the “loved one” in question was Princess Diana. But if it was instead your beloved Aunt Betty, then that’s a shame, but absolutely raise your hand and tap dance the hell out of that courtroom.





READ THE ROOM


When it comes to jury selection, lawyers are looking to seat jurors who will help them win their case (and exclude those who won’t). They don’t care if you haven’t showered in a week, that you shouted gibberish when you entered the courtroom, or any of the other nonsense millions of jurors before you have tried to get excused. If you have a pulse, and they think you’ll rule in their favor, they’re going to seat you. End of story.

Based on their line of questioning during the jury selection process, however, it should be relatively easy to ascertain what sort of juror each side is looking for—and how you can be the opposite.

If the prosecution is on the lookout for jurors that are more likely to believe the arresting officer, now might be a good time to dig deep into your memory bank for a time a police officer wronged you. If the defense wants jurors who are open-minded about recreational drug use, an anecdote about how D.A.R.E. shaped your childhood might get you fast-tracked to the exit.





JURY NULLIFICATION: YOUR ACE IN THE HOLE


A little-known fact of the American judicial system is that a jury doesn’t have to convict the defendant if they determine guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. If the jury deems the law to be unjust, they are well within their rights to refuse to render a not guilty verdict in a process known as jury nullification. In many cases, simply asking the judge about jury nullification will get you sent home faster than you can say, “Thanks, Your Honor.”





84. STEALTH SOCIAL MEDIA STALK




Social media is a give and take. In exchange for constant updates on the whereabouts and activities of our friends and family, we give up our own anonymity as well. Unless their accounts are public, we can’t view their posts without tipping that individual off to the fact that we’re keeping tabs on them. Or can we?





MANUFACTURE A BENIGN REASON TO CONNECT


After hours of searching, you’ve finally tracked down the cute barista at your local coffee shop. You’re bursting to discover what makes them tick, but you can’t connect with zero pretext; you’ll look like a crazy person.

Instead, start conversations and create connections with people in their periphery. The more people you have in common, the less sketchy it will be when you finally do pull the trigger and ask to connect.

You can also use the information available publicly to create a believable excuse to get in touch. Pretend to be a peer who works in their field looking to network or someone who shares an interest in one of their hobbies. Anything other than, “Your name badge said ‘Alex,’ so I sifted through 25,000 profiles of people named Alex before I found you. Marry me?”





CRAFT A FAKE PERSONA


Stalking people you’ve never officially met is one thing, but keeping tabs on acquaintances from your past is far trickier business. If you want to creep on a jilted ex or an old friend you lost touch with, you’re going to have to go incognito.





BE BELIEVABLE


If you just make up a random person with no connection to the target, there’s a 90 percent chance they’re going to ignore your request. Do some homework and make sure your fake persona shares an alma mater, former place of employment, or some other believable “connection genesis” with your target.





BE THOROUGH


If you’re going to go to the trouble of making up a human being, you should at least go the extra mile and pad their profile with legitimate-seeming content. Nothing says “this page is totally fake” like a single profile photo, no followers, and zero activity in your feed.

Once your page has some content, go on a following spree and try to get as many legitimate people to follow you back as possible. Once you have some decent credibility, focus on acquiring as many followers from your fake connection genesis as possible. This will help you further solidify your “Remember me? I sat behind you in Econ 201 sophomore year” ruse.





BE FORGETTABLE


Once you’ve made your connection, it’s time to slow your activity to a standstill and ingest as much detail about your target as possible before they catch on. If you continue to post, you run the risk that you’ll entice your target to dive deeper into your profile and bring down the whole house of cards you worked so hard to construct.

Part of your success in this will be how well you know the lingo of social media. In Instagram parlance, a “Finsta” (Fake Insta) is a private account where an individual feels free to post unfiltered, often more explicit, content than they would on their “Rinsta” (Real Insta). If you are older than twenty-five, you should not say either term out loud.





85. MAKE A ROADKILL FEAST




It’s estimated as many as one million animals are killed by motor vehicles every single day in the United States. That’s very sad for the animals, but there’s a far greater tragedy here than the death of a few dumb squirrels. Assuming an average weight of just three pounds, that’s more than one billion pounds of perfectly good meat wasting away on the side of the road each year. Such a shame.





HOW FRESH IS IT? HOW FLAT IS IT?


When scavenging for roadkill, you should always be on the lookout for freshly killed critters that are still mostly intact. Ideally, you’ve witnessed the glancing blow that led to their untimely death. Otherwise, there are several signs to look out for that indicate the meat is still good to eat:

Live fleas are active on the carcass

The eyes are clear, not cloudy

There’s no evidence of maggots on the meat

No foul odor emanating from the animal



An animal that’s been partially flattened may still be safe to eat, but it’s generally not worth the risk to try to salvage the meat. The animal’s digestive tract may have been punctured, tainting the rest of the meat with potentially harmful bacteria.





HEAT AND TIME ARE YOUR ENEMIES


A recently deceased animal is considered prime real estate as far as bacteria are concerned, and they can grow rapidly in warm temperatures.

Squirrels, rabbits, hedgehogs, opossums, foxes, and other small animals can be easily stored in a cooler filled with ice until you’re ready to prepare them (or freeze them) back at home. But larger animals like moose, deer, and bears will need to be field dressed on site and brought to a secondary location for butchering.





Warning: Rats Are Never Safe to Eat


Eating rats isn’t particularly high on most people’s bucket lists, which is probably for the best. They often carry Weil’s disease, a particularly nasty infection that can lead to jaundice, kidney failure, and brain damage in severe cases. If you see a rat on the side of the road, it’s best to leave it there.





CHOOSE THE RIGHT RECIPE


You need to cook the ever-living hell out of your roadkill to minimize the risk of parasites and bacterial infection. Slow-cooked stews, braises, and casseroles are ideal methods for preparing roadkill because they ensure the meat is cooked thoroughly and evenly. Recipes where the meat is pan seared or grilled and immediately served are risky, because the internal temperature of the meat may not get high enough to ensure it is safe to eat.





86. SURVIVE AN EPIDEMIC




When we think about the end of human civilization, most people conjure images of wayward comets, nuclear holocausts, or massive supervolcanoes wiping out all life as we know it. From a probability standpoint, however, the ultimate source of our undoing is far more likely to be microscopic.





KNOW YOUR ENEMY


Hollywood often manufactures new, previously unknown viruses when depicting epidemics, but in the real world there are already numerous viruses that could wreak havoc on society:





Smallpox


There hasn’t been a natural case since 1980, and all known stockpiles of the virus have been destroyed. There’s still a risk, however, that terrorist groups could bring the virus back from extinction and unleash it on society.





Influenza


The 1918 Spanish flu outbreak wiped out around 5 percent of the world’s population. If a deadlier strain was to arise, the results could be even more devastating.





Ebola


The virus kills nearly half of all those who contract it. Outbreaks are becoming more common, and a relatively long incubation period makes them difficult to contain.





Rabies


Although it is difficult to contract, the virus has a 100 percent mortality rate after the outset of symptoms.





Marburg virus


The symptoms (and mortality rate) are similar to that of Ebola, but the virus has one unsettling difference: there’s no known treatment.





PREPARE FOR THE WORST


Think of the last time you tried to navigate a grocery store just before a major snowstorm. Now imagine that hellscape and multiply it by one hundred. This is what you’re up against if you try to gather supplies after the epidemic starts.

Your chances of surviving an epidemic are much higher if your home is well stocked with provisions long before news of the outbreak hits the airwaves. At minimum, you should have:

Enough dehydrated meals to last one month

Thirty gallons of water per person

A first aid kit

Solar panels and batteries

Flashlights

A gas-powered generator

Candles

Matches

Cash

Face masks

Surgical gloves

Water filters



If your local pharmacy is already picked clean, you might want to try your local vet’s office. The pain medications and antibiotics prescribed to cats and dogs are often the same as those prescribed to humans, just in smaller doses.





HOLE UP AT HOME


In the early stages of an epidemic, you may not know much about the virus you’re dealing with. Until you get more information, you have to assume that the virus is highly contagious, potentially airborne, and anyone could be infected.

Keep the doors and windows sealed and locked at all times, and don’t venture outside unless you absolutely need to. Unless your cupboards are completely bare, it’s not worth the risk to head to the grocery store. Remember, you can survive for several weeks without food.

It may sound extreme, but you should avoid unnecessary contact with your family as well. They may already be infected and could pass the virus on to you (or vice versa).





VENTURE OUTSIDE WITH CAUTION


If you must go outside, a surgical mask will help reduce the risk of exposure to airborne pathogens. You’ll also want to wear clothing that covers your skin to reduce the risk of exposure to other bodily fluids. Limit your time out in the open to the absolute bare minimum. Get what you need and get back to the relative safety of your home.

If you’re lucky, the worst of the epidemic will be over within a few weeks and you can get back to normal. If the epidemic lasts longer, you can survive indefinitely as long as you have access to enough canned goods and potable water to keep you alive.





87. LIVE A DOUBLE LIFE




Everyone keeps secrets. For most people, they’re small things like a hidden stash of candy bars or a stockpile of vintage Playboys. For others, though, their secrets can’t be hidden in a crawl space or beneath a loose floorboard. A whole aspect of their lives is a secret, and keeping it hidden is no walk in the park.





LAY THE GROUNDWORK


Double lives don’t spring up overnight. They require careful, methodical planning and attention to detail, and you’ll need to tailor every aspect of your life to accommodate whatever it is you’re hiding from your family (particularly if the thing you’re hiding is another family).





Work


The ideal job for a double life is one that pays well and allows you to work remotely. If you can snag a career as a sales executive or another profession where travel is common, all the better. This will allow you to take tons of “business trips” without raising suspicion.





Finances


Whether your dirty secret is moonlighting as a stripper or an unhealthy obsession with anime, every dollar you spend on skimpy underwear or manga is going to raise some flags. If you want to keep your double life a secret, you—and only you—can have access to your financial history.





Digital Presence


Your browser history and phone records are a ticking time bomb. All it takes is one slipup and your entire secret world is laid bare for all your family and friends to see. Consider investing in burner devices like prepaid cell phones or laptops purchased with cash that nobody else knows you have. Never use your everyday devices when doing anything related to your double life.





TELL NO ONE


As long as you’re the only person who knows what you’re up to, you have a decent chance of keeping it under wraps indefinitely. The moment you confide any aspect of your double life with another person, you increase the risk of being found out dramatically.

When you’re engaging in double life activities, use a pseudonym and wear a disguise if it’s something that requires going out in public. The last thing you want is to run into a coworker and have to explain what you’re doing at a naked bicycle riding convention (although the better question might be what they’re doing there).

You’ll also want to resist the urge to discuss aspects of your double life in casual conversation. You may have very strong opinions about which My Little Pony character best personifies the concept of “Friendship Is Magic” (Twilight Sparkle, duh), but keep them to yourself.





KEEP TRACK OF YOUR LIES


You don’t necessarily want to keep a spreadsheet of every falsehood you’ve told to keep your double life a secret, but you need to be able to keep your stories straight. To make it easier on yourself, keep your lies simple and the details to a minimum.

“I’m going on a business trip next week” leaves room for adjustment after the fact. You can change the location and specific date to fit your needs later if somebody catches you in a lie. On the other hand, “I’m going to a work conference in Dallas. My flight leaves at 9:00 a.m. on Sunday” requires a lot of explaining if somebody spots you at a bar two towns over Sunday night.

If you’re still nervous, you may take comfort from this: Roughly 70 percent of men and 50 percent of women engage in an extramarital affair at some point in their marriage.

Now don’t you feel better?





88. TAKE OVER YOUR HOA


When they’re run by normal people, homeowners associations (HOAs) are great. For a small monthly fee, you get to relax while the HOA handles things like snow removal, trash pickup, and gardening. When your HOA is run by adult children, however, your HOA can become a monster that needs to be destroyed.





KNOW YOUR BYLAWS


Depending on where you live, the rules that govern your HOA could be anywhere from a few pages to binders full of petty nonsense. While it may be a daunting task to comb through it all, becoming an expert on your HOA’s bylaws can have some serious benefits.

First and foremost, you’ll know which rules are ironclad and which are safe to ignore—as well as the penalties for breaking them. Second, the bylaws will contain detailed information about what steps you’ll need to take to get elected to the board and take the HOA down from the inside.





FORM AN ALLIANCE


If you’re miserable with the way your HOA is running things, chances are you’re not alone. Seek out like-minded residents and try to suss out if they can be trusted. The last thing you want to do is tip off the existing board members that you’re planning a coup, so be careful who you confide in.

Focus your attention on the fringe community members who keep to themselves or are the subject of neighborhood gossip. They’re more likely to have a bone to pick with the HOA and might just be so happy you’re talking to them that they’ll do whatever you ask them to.





LIE YOUR BUTT OFF


Once you’ve secured a decent-sized voting bloc, it’s time to pander to the rest of the community like you’ve never pandered before. Whether it’s reducing the speed limit or banning unsightly solar panels, tell them whatever it takes to get elected.

It doesn’t matter if you actually agree with any of the policies you’re championing. All that matters is that you can convince enough suckers from the community to come along with you for the ride.





THE LONG CON


Once you get elected, you’ve reached an important milestone, but your hostile takeover is far from over. In order to stack the board of directors with enough of your cronies to have a voting majority, you’ll need to repeat the process with members of your alliance and get them elected as well.

In the meantime, sit tight and be patient.





SPRING YOUR TRAP


You and your alliance have been playing nice and biding your time for ages, but it’s finally paid off. You have an ironclad majority on the board, and it’s time to drop the charade and implement the real changes you’ve been after all along. Declare a permanent “adult swim,” reduce the HOA fees by 80 percent, or officially ban leaf blowers—the sky’s the limit. Just remember, with great power, comes great responsibility.





The Most Expensive HOA Fees


The average HOA fee in the United States is between $200 and $300, but it can vary greatly by location. New York City has the highest average at $575 per month, with Honolulu, Hawaii, in a close second at $438 per month.





89. CON PEOPLE ON CRAIGSLIST


The golden age of the yard sale has come and gone—although you can still find them on a sunny Saturday afternoon. But honestly, why would anybody drive around on the hunt for other people’s junk when they can search for deals from the comfort of their couch? While there are plenty of good deals to be had by being an honest customer, the true bargain hunter knows that the seller will always go lower if you’re willing to bend the truth a bit.





FLOOD THE MARKET WITH FAKE LISTINGS


You found a gorgeous midcentury coffee table for sale, but the seller refuses to go lower than $500. He insists it’s one of a kind, and it’s worth twice that. Which may be true, but since when did the truth matter in furniture negotiations?

Search around for photos of similar coffee tables and use them to create new listings in your area priced at a deep discount. Next, send the original seller links to the fake listings and let him know you’d still like to buy his if he can match the lower prices.





FLAKE ON THE SELLER (REPEATEDLY)


If the seller still won’t budge, shift away from the strategy of faux listings and focus instead on fake buyers. Create a handful of throwaway emails and reach out to express interest in the item. Every few days, respond to the ad and ask if the seller can hold it for a day or two since you’re out of town. Agree to a time and place to meet up, and then reschedule at the last second—only to completely flake on the rescheduled time.

By the third or fourth no-show, the seller will be so desperate to be done with the whole thing that he’ll happily accept a lowball offer from you.





STIFF THE SELLER


You’ve settled on a place to meet and it’s time to complete the sale for the agreed upon price. Or is it? You’re down to the wire, but there’s still time to squeeze a few extra dollars out of the seller.

Despite the advent of peer-to-peer money transfer options, most Craigslist transactions still use cold, hard cash—and this can work to your benefit. For example, let’s say the seller is expecting $100. When you arrive, confidently state, “We agreed on $90 right? Here you go!” If the seller isn’t one for confrontation, he’ll probably just take it without making a fuss. If he does contradict you, act confused and let him know that he’s welcome to take it or leave it. After all he’s been through, there’s no way he’s going to walk away over ten measly dollars.





90. SPAM THE SPAMMERS




More than half of all email is classified as spam. The same goes for nearly half of all mobile phone calls. If spammers ever figure out a way to infiltrate our dreams, we’ll be waist-deep in Nigerian princes every time we close our eyes. It’s time to stop playing nice and start beating them at their own game.





WASTE THEIR TIME


Each day, the vast majority of emails, phone calls, and text messages that spammers send go unanswered and unread. Which is no big deal, because all of the outreach is automated. It’s not until the spammers get a response that a live person gets involved, and this is your chance to turn the tables on them.

Whether it’s a phishing scam to get you to divulge personal information or a ploy to convince you to wire them money, make them think you’ve bought it hook, line, and sinker—and drag it out as long as you can. If you’ve got time to spare, you can waste hours over email or on the phone purposely misstating your social security number and banking information or asking them to repeat themselves because you didn’t quite understand them the first time.

If you don’t feel like actively engaging them, simply ask them to hold and see how long they wait before hanging up. Once someone beats the record, congratulate them and tell them they’ve won a free cruise—you just need their social security number so they can claim their prize.





PUSH THE ENVELOPE


Finding a gullible prospect is like stumbling on a four-leaf clover at the end of a double rainbow for a spammer. They’re desperate to keep you on the hook, and you can use their desperation against them.

There’s really no limit to what you can ask them to do to verify they’re legit. If you’re having trouble brainstorming methods of torture, you could try requesting they:

Tattoo a pass phrase on their body to verify they’re not a robot

Provide a selfie with the Nigerian prince whose fortune you stand to inherit

Sing the US national anthem as loud as they can to prove they work for whatever government agency they’re claiming to





91. DROP YOUR AWFUL FRIEND




Everyone has that one friend. You were close when you were kids, but now things are just off. Maybe he’s been sucked into a pyramid scheme he won’t shut up about. Perhaps you’re still mad about that time she got wasted and wrecked your car. Whatever the reason, it’s time to extract yourself from the situation, delicately. (You’re really just going with the natural flow of things. According to British anthropologist Dr. Robin Dunbar, humans can only maintain approximately 150 friendships at any given time.)





DROP YOUR FRIEND STOCK TO 0


There are a number of reasons your awful friend sticks around, and one of them is because you’re just so damn likeable. Luckily, you can change that.

Cease all personal hygiene.

Make “unconscious” clicking sounds with your tongue once every 1.5 seconds.

Cry constantly. For no reason.

Take up smoking, vaping, and chewing tobacco all at the same time.

Find an obscure new hobby and talk about nothing else (birding, stamp collecting, plane spotting, etc.).

Hire a homeless person as a “life coach.” Insist that you won’t go anywhere without him.



You may lose all of your other friends in the process, but that’s a small price to pay for your own freedom.





DISTANCE YOURSELF EMOTIONALLY (AND PHYSICALLY)


Are you still actively reaching out to your “friend” to schedule lunches and coffee dates, even though you dread every minute you spend together? Well, it’s time to stop. This goes double for responding to text messages and late-night phone calls, as well as any and all social media touch points. Distance kills friendships like the plague, and it can be your greatest ally in your mission to drop your friend.

Just be sure to taper off the in-person and digital interactions gradually. If you ghost completely, your friend might file a missing person report and be so overjoyed you aren’t dead that your friendship gets extended a few more uncomfortable years.





PAWN HIM OFF ON SOMEONE ELSE


It’s quite possible your buddy is just as sick of you as you are of him, but he just doesn’t have anybody else to turn to. If you can find somebody else with whom to stick him, you might be doing both of you a favor.

Take stock of all your acquaintances and see if there’s anybody you are willing to sacrifice for the greater good. Once you’ve narrowed down your list, schedule a few group outings to see if any of them hit it off with your awful friend. If there’s a connection there, all you have to do is cancel on your next hangout at the last minute and let their new friendship bloom in your absence.

You know your awful friend better than anybody, so it should be fairly trivial for you to create a fake dating profile and track down their ideal mate. Once you’ve pegged your unwitting target, it’s a simple matter of setting up a date with him, standing him up, inviting your partner on a date at the same location, and standing him up as well. Just make sure it’s a small bar or restaurant, so there’s a decent chance they’ll be able to connect.





92. PANHANDLE LIKE A PRO




Money doesn’t grow on trees, but if you’re willing to brave the elements and swallow your pride, it can rain down from the sky into your open coffee mug.





STAKE OUT YOUR TERRITORY


Your success or failure as a panhandler is largely determined by the volume of people that pass by you every day—but that’s not the only factor. For example, you might get a lot of foot traffic on a college campus, but are broke undergrads really going to help you out? Probably not. The ideal location is in a busy business district where customers frequently pay with cash. Think coffee shops, pharmacies, delis, convenience stores, and food trucks, to name a few.

If you can find a lunch spot that only takes cash, this is the holy grail of panhandling locations. You know the customers are walking out with spare change and, more importantly, they know you know.

Lastly, try to avoid hunkering down where there’s already an abundance of panhandlers. Competition is not your friend.





LOOK THE PART


People who are desperate enough to beg for money on the streets don’t have expensive clothes or fancy electronics. If they did, they would have sold them already. If you want people to take you seriously, they need to believe you’re destitute.

Your clothes should be tattered, outdated, and full of unidentifiable stains. If nothing you own fits the bill, water mixed with bleach does wonders for fading colors, and a little sandpaper will give your jeans an undeniable “these are literally my only pair of pants” look.





SETTLE ON AN APPROACH


There are as many techniques for panhandling as there are panhandlers, and there’s no right or wrong way of begging for money. What’s important is you choose an approach that works for you.





Town Crier


The most common form of panhandling is also one of the simplest.

Find a spot to sit down and place a receptacle nearby.

Ask everybody who passes by if they can spare some change.





Clever Signage


This form of panhandler etches pleas for assistance on cardboard and lets their message speak for itself. Sometimes they pull on the heartstrings, but most often they try to appeal to the reader’s sense of humor: like the guy with the “bet you can’t hit me with a quarter” sign.





Con Man


Common to supermarket parking lots and gas stations, this form of panhandler creates an elaborate sob story to separate people from their cash. It usually involves some combination of their car breaking down, losing their wallet, and needing money for gas or bus fare.





Busker


The most honorable form of panhandling, busking is considered free speech and is a perfectly legal form of artistic expression. Whether it’s dancing, puppetry, magic, or playing a musical instrument, buskers hope passersby will show their gratitude for the performance in the form of spare change.

Don’t get your expectations too high. While some panhandlers have claimed to make upwards of $200 an hour practicing their craft, the average is far, far lower. A 2013 study of 146 panhandlers in San Francisco found that most earned around $25 a day. Still, it beats working in an office, right?





93. ABUSE CREDIT CARD REWARDS




In 1950, Diners Club introduced the first credit card and freed the masses from carrying around massive wads of cash at all times. As other vendors flocked to offer their own cards, they offered incentives like free appliances to convince consumers to use their cards instead. That practice is still alive and well today, and can be quite lucrative to exploit.





DO A CREDIT HEALTH CHECK


In order to snag the best rewards bonuses and get approved for the most exclusive cards, you’re going to need to have a relatively high credit score (740+). To find out where you stand, you’re entitled to request a comprehensive credit report from each of the three credit bureaus annually. You can also use a free service like Credit Karma or Mint to get a close approximation of your score.

If your score is a little low, focus on these areas to try to bring it up:

Keep your credit card balances below 30 percent of your total available credit.

Set up automated payments to avoid negative marks on your report.

Pay off any low-balance cards you may have and keep all future charges on a single card.

Keep old accounts open—old accounts help your score, while new ones can hurt it.





EMBRACE THE ART OF CHURNING


The best credit card rewards, by far, are reserved for new customers. While day-to-day spending might only get you 1 percent to 3 percent back for every dollar you spend, credit card issuers will happily throw upwards of $750 in cash or points at you when you initially open the card. Not to mention airline miles and other perks.

Most people get the reward and then use the same card for years. But what’s stopping you from opening another card right away? By continually opening new cards, meeting the promotional requirements, closing the cards, and opening new ones, some people can churn through a dozen or more cards in a single year. Which can add up to thousands of dollars in cash and points.





MEET THE MINIMUM SPEND


There’s no such thing as a free lunch, and credit card companies don’t just write you a check for $500 as soon as you open up your card. Nearly all credit card bonuses require you spend a certain amount of money on the card to get your bonus.

Standard minimum spends are usually between $2,000 and $4,000 within two to four months, which means you may have to charge $3,000 (or more) worth of stuff every month to keep up with ten or more cards. That’s a lot of gas and groceries. Luckily there are some things you can do to help meet those minimum thresholds:

Wait to apply for new cards until you’re about to make a major purchase

Use your credit card to pay any taxes you owe (there’s a small transaction fee, usually around 2 percent)

Pay your rent or mortgage via credit card if possible

Many colleges will let you pay tuition with a credit card

Prepay your bills if possible



If you’re in a crunch to meet your minimum spend, you can purchase gift cards from retailers like Amazon, Walmart, and Target to get you over the threshold. By law they never expire, so you can wait to use them until there’s a break in your churning schedule.





94. UPGRADE FROM THE CHEAP SEATS




Unless you’re one of the elite sports fans wealthy enough to sit within spitting distance of your idols, chances are pretty good you bring a pair of binoculars with you to the game. If you want to actually see the action, you’d be better off heading to the bar across the street from the stadium. Or you could bridge the inequality gap and stage a sit-in somewhere near the front row.





DRESS THE PART


People who buy the best seats in the house can also afford gear that’s current and good quality. If you sit down in the front row wearing a tattered old hat with a logo that hasn’t been used in twenty years, you’re going to draw suspicion.

Before the game, head to a gift shop near the stadium and stock up on some premium swag. Just make sure you keep the tags on and take good care of it during the game so you can return it later.





PATIENCE IS A VIRTUE


Before the game starts, ushers are on high alert for anybody who might “accidentally” make their way to seats they didn’t pay for. If you try to brush past them and get caught, they’re going to send you packing to the bleachers. What’s worse, they’ll keep their eyes out for you later.

On top of that, the owners of seats that look unoccupied might still be on their way. Try to snag their seats too early, and you’ll make a fool of yourself when they show up. Instead, wait until the end of the first quarter/period (or the third inning if it’s a baseball game) before you make your move.





ELIMINATE THE GUESSWORK


It used to be impossible to know for certain that a premium seat was up for grabs. Now, with so many tickets being sold and scalped online, that dream is finally a reality. Once the game is in full swing, start scouting around for possible upgrade options and see if you can match those same seats to tickets available online. If you find them, that means they’re unsold—and free for the taking.

If you’re feeling particularly unscrupulous, you can start a dialog with a scalper several days before the game and agree to meet a few hours before to buy them. When you’re a no-show, the scalper won’t have enough time to find another buyer, leaving the seats open come game time.





MAKE YOUR MOVE


Once you’re confident there are some seats available closer to the action, wait for a few people from that section to head to the bathroom or concession stand and start casually making your way down there. If you time it right, you should be able to mingle in with them when they head back and slip past the usher.

Alternatively, you could wait for a big play that gets the crowd going before you make your move. The noise should provide you with cover as you try to sneak past the usher. If deceit isn’t your strong suit, there’s no harm in simply asking an usher if you can sit closer. You might just catch him on a good day.

Once you’re seated, it’s time to sit back, relax, and try your best not to draw attention to yourself. The last thing you want is to have all your hard work undone because you wound up on the jumbotron.





95. STAGE AN EPIC PRANK




We’ve all dabbled in casual pranks at some point in our lives. Maybe you slipped a whoopee cushion under your dad’s chair when you were ten or convinced your little brother he was adopted. When you were in college, you may have even covered the toilet with plastic wrap and ruined your roommate’s day.

That’s all child’s play, though, compared to the epic mayhem you’re about to unleash on the world.





MESS WITH THEIR SENSE OF REALITY


While most amateur pranksters focus on a single climactic payoff, true veterans know that slow-burn pranks can be far more rewarding. Replace your roommate’s toothpaste with antifungal cream and you’ll have a good laugh for a day. Convince your roommate she’s allergic to toothpaste and it could take years before she catches on.

Sneak into the target’s house when she isn’t home and swap her clothes with identical garments that are slightly shorter. Repeat the process every few weeks. At the same time, mess with her scale to shave a few pounds off the reading and make it seem like she’s simultaneously losing weight and getting taller.

Each week, hire a different actor to approach your target and reminisce about the wild bender they shared the previous weekend. Within a month, your target will be convinced he’s leading a double life that he’s not even aware of.

Go to your local salon and acquire some discarded hair that matches the target’s. When she goes to sleep, sprinkle a clump onto her pillow. Repeat nightly for two months or until she seeks medical attention (whichever comes first).

Use windshield defogger to write cryptic messages on his bathroom mirror. When he showers, it will seem as if a stalker (or a ghost) is watching him.





MASS-SCALE PRANKS


Hitting one target is sublime in its own right, but messing with dozens—or even hundreds—of people at once is pure prankster bliss. Normally associated with the high school practice of epic senior pranks, there’s no reason why you can’t translate them to the office or any venue where large groups of people congregate.

Borrow four adorable piglets from your local farm. Paint the numbers 1, 2, 3, and 5 on them, grease them up, and let them loose in a building. How long you wait until you reveal there is no number 4 is up to you.

Bribe a waiter to let you hide fake engagement rings underneath napkins at every table on Valentine’s Day.

Rent a limo, put on your finest clothes, and head to a department store. Announce that you’re an eccentric billionaire and you’d like to pay for everyone’s purchases. While hundreds of shoppers frantically fill their carts, quietly duck out and disappear.

Burning obscene imagery into grass is unnecessarily destructive and easy to remove. Carefully crafting the image in fertilizer, however, can last months. The grass will grow stronger and healthier where you apply the fertilizer, and the image will remain no matter how much it’s mowed.





A PRANK FOUR YEARS IN THE MAKING


In 1927, Georgia Tech student William Edgar Smith added the name George P. Burdell to the school’s enrollment form and signed him up for all the same classes he was taking. Whenever he took a test or handed in an assignment, he duplicated his efforts for George as well. It wasn’t until Burdell received a bachelor’s degree that the school realized he didn’t exist.





96. PRETEND TO BE RICH




Hate your job? Rich people don’t have to work. Tired of clipping coupons to eat ramen noodles and dry cereal? The 1 percent eats whatever they want. Roommates driving you crazy? Billionaires live in mansions—not walk-up efficiencies.

Unfortunately, to enjoy the perks of the wealthy elite, you need to actually have money. Or do you?





LOOK THE PART


If you’re not driving around in a Lambo and sporting the latest designer fashion, nobody is going to believe for a second that you’re worth eight or nine figures.

If you hit up thrift stores in the wealthy part of town, you might get lucky and snag some designer duds on the cheap. Alternatively, companies like Rent the Runway and Le Tote will let you rent expensive designer clothes for a fraction of the cost to buy them.

While dropping $200,000 for a new Lamborghini is simply out of the question, renting one for a day will “only” set you back $1,500. If you don’t want to blow several months’ worth of groceries in a single day, you might be able to convince a dealership to let you test-drive one.





ASSEMBLE AN ENTOURAGE


Wealthy celebrities and even everyday billionaires never travel alone. At the very least, they’ve got a driver, bodyguard, publicist, and a few random hangers-on following along like feeder fish attached to a shark.

You may not have money to actually hire these people, but you do probably have a half-dozen friends willing to play along. Just throw black suits and dark sunglasses on them, instruct them to look menacing, and you’re good to go.





GET THE ROYAL TREATMENT


Okay, you look like somebody who has money to throw around, but now what? Head to the local burrito joint and splurge for extra guac like the rich bastard you are? Hell no! Think bigger. A lot bigger.

Even though the super wealthy can afford to buy anything they want, retailers are constantly throwing free things at them. It’s counterintuitive, but who are you to argue?

With your entourage in tow, hit up every chic boutique in a ten-mile radius and get treated to champagne, hyper-attentive service, and maybe even some free clothes or jewelry if you play your cards right.





97. STAGE AN INSURANCE SCAM


Every month, you send your hard-earned money to your insurance company and what do you get back in return? The illusion of safety. The insurance company wants you to think they’ve got your back, but their tone shifts the moment you file a claim. Suddenly your burst pipe is “an act of God” and your deductible is actually three times what you thought it was. Insurance itself is a scam, so is it really that bad to even the playing field a little?





BEND THE LAW, BUT DON’T BREAK IT


If you’re thinking about burning your home to the ground to collect the insurance money, you get points for dedication, but you might want to set your sights a little lower. That’s clear-cut fraud, and you’re looking at real jail time along with some serious fines. The same goes for staging a robbery, forcing somebody to rear-end you, or faking your own death.





LET THE OPPORTUNITY COME TO YOU


You can’t actively force an event that would allow you to file an insurance claim, but there’s nothing saying that you have to go out of your way to prevent it either. For example, if your current home theater system is getting a little long in the tooth, perhaps it’s time to stop locking the living room windows. Or maybe relocate it to the attic that just happens to leak every time it rains.

If someone is tailgating you on an empty stretch of road, slamming on your brakes to cause an accident for no reason is definitely illegal. Slamming on your brakes to avoid hitting a small animal, however, is a perfectly legitimate response.





LET THE INSURANCE COMPANY FIX YOUR MESSES


When it comes to our homes and automobiles, most of us like to keep them presentable. If your bumper is dented, you replace it. If your bedroom wall has a hole, you patch it. But why waste all that time, effort, and money when—with a little luck—you can pass the repairs off to the insurance company?

Imagine your car is covered in scratches. Perhaps you also have a habit of running your mouth at fellow motorists. It’s really only a matter of time before somebody keys your car. If the damage is extensive enough, the insurance company will have to do a whole new paint job to repair the key marks—fixing the preexisting damage in the process.

Have a few loose shingles on the roof and a neighbor with a dead tree that could fall at any minute? When it does, you’re going to get a new roof courtesy of his insurance company, so leave your work gloves in the garage and wait it out.





98. CREATE A FALL GUY




Framing someone for a crime he didn’t commit is, as it turns out, also a crime. At the same time, however, that POS who beat you up in middle school deserves to be punished. Same goes for your two-timing ex and that guy in your office who totally stole your badass bobbing head doll.

The legal term for framing is a frame-up, and is classified as providing false evidence or testimony against another individual to prove him guilty of a crime. For example, placing a weapon near an individual to justify shooting him after the fact.

Luckily, while framing someone for a crime is illegal, there are plenty of things you can frame people for that, while not criminal, could still make their life hell.





RESEARCH YOUR SUBJECT


If you’re going to convince people that your fall guy did something heinous, it needs to be something believable. Start by conducting some light reconnaissance on your fall guy to uncover any exploits he might have and ensure whatever you frame him for is going to stick. You don’t want to fabricate an elaborate story of how your office nemesis is secretly nibbling on everybody’s lunches only to discover he’s gluten intolerant and could never have eaten half the things you claim he did.





PLANT THE SEEDS


Whether you’re going to fabricate a secret affair your fall guy is having or “discover” a collection of voodoo dolls made of human hair in their desk, you can’t just start with the reveal right out of the gate. You need to drop little hints of their alleged deviant behavior so that when the bomb does eventually drop, it’s easier for everybody around them to stomach the accusation.

Simple offhand remarks like, “Some things have been going missing off my desk lately, can you think of anyone who might have taken them?” are perfect because they don’t point to anyone specific, but they prime the pump for later.





BECOME WHAT YOU HATE


The unfortunate truth of framing someone is that, one way or another, somebody has to do the thing(s) you are going to frame them for. Namely, you.

While there are innumerable unsavory transgressions to use to frame your fall guy, here are a few to get you started:

Create various social media accounts for your fall guy and post exclusively about celebrities’ feet. Simultaneously, search for “foot fetish” repeatedly on your company’s network. It shouldn’t take long for them to connect the dots (incorrectly).

Over the course of several weeks, pick some distinctive items out of the trash of your fall guy’s neighbors. Over time, gradually slip those same items into your target’s trash (making sure they’re poking out the top and visible). Their neighbors will think your fall guy is rummaging through their garbage and won’t have any clue why.

Send flowers to your fall guy’s house with a note that says, “Thanks for a great time the other night. Sincerely, You Know Who.” Time it so they will arrive when his spouse is home, but he is not.

Mail an anonymous letter to your fall guy’s boss complaining about your victim’s performance. Be as detailed as possible.

On the next major holiday, send gifts from your fall guy to all of his coworkers—except for the redheaded ones. They’ll assume your fall guy is a bigot, and a weirdly obscure one at that.





99. INTERROGATE A SUSPECTED LUNCH THIEF




If you think someone might be guilty of a serious crime, then you should immediately turn to trained law enforcement officials. But while that may work for robberies and murders, the LAPD isn’t going to drop everything to determine if your coworker stole your carefully crafted bento box.





KNOW YOUR LIMITS


Only one in three Americans advocates for the use of torture against suspected terrorists. However, that number jumps to 80 percent when survey participants are asked to replace hypothetical anonymous victims with their own loved ones. Pollsters haven’t asked what percentage would favor torturing a lunch thief suspect.

Things you cannot do as an everyday citizen:

Physically restrain or detain an individual who has not committed a felony (or misdemeanor in some cases)

Threaten an individual with physical violence

Harass an individual

Engage in any form of torture



In short, keep your hands to yourself, and leave your waterboarding gear at home.





SET THE STAGE


You can’t force the subject to sit through your questions, but you can make it uncomfortable for him to leave.

Ideally, corner him in a crowded place at a time he can’t just run away and dodge your questions—like during a work party or conference. When he has to choose between indulging you or fleeing, chances are he’ll talk to you. You’d be surprised how few people are willing to cause a scene.

If you can’t wait until the stars align for a previously scheduled event, try inviting your suspect out for lunch. That way you can wait until he’s ordered before you start your interrogation. Unless he wants to leave without paying, he’s stuck with you for the duration of the meal.





PSYCH 101


Just because you can’t torture your suspect doesn’t mean you can’t mess with their heads a little. There are a few tried and true human psychology tricks that you can use to your advantage:

Silence Is Golden: Silence makes people uncomfortable. Instead of moving from question to question, wait patiently to see if the suspect fills the dead air with incriminating stream of consciousness thought.

Good Cop/Good Cop: Suspects tend to open up more to individuals they like and trust.

Bob and Weave: A practiced liar has their story down pat. Unexpected lines of questioning can throw them off.

Liar, Liar: Misrepresenting your own knowledge could be enough to trigger a confession. At the very least, their reaction to your lies should be insightful.

Rapid Fire: If you can get your suspect into a rhythm of answering simple, benign questions, they might trip up and answer an incriminating one later.

Prop It Up: To you, it’s just a blank memory card. To your suspect though, it could secret recordings from a hidden camera right next to the fridge. If they think you’ve got the goods on them, they’ll be more likely to confess.





100. BECOME A MARIJUANA FARMER




Any stoner who has ever dealt with a flakey dealer or had to rummage through couch cushions to scrape together cash has dreamed of growing his own pot. But after converting your closet into a grow room and painstakingly nurturing a handful of plants, it quickly becomes clear that the juice just isn’t worth the squeeze. Unless of course you go all in and turn your hobby into a full-on vocation.





DECIDE WHERE TO SET UP SHOP


All around the world, the sentiment on marijuana is shifting.

Several countries have legalized recreational sales of the magical plant, and a number of states in the US allow both medical and recreational use or have at least decriminalized it. But if you’re looking to start a full-blown farming operation, you’re left with the following options:

Canada: recreational + medical

Alaska: recreational + medical

California: recreational + medical

Colorado: recreational + medical

Delaware: medical

Florida: medical

Hawaii: medical

Maine: recreational + medical

Missouri: medical

Montana: medical

New Hampshire: medical

New Mexico: medical

Rhode Island: medical

Washington: recreational + medical



While there are a number of other states that allow personal cultivation, you’re limited to just a handful of plants. Not nearly enough to make it worthwhile to farm.





GERMINATE YOUR SEEDS


Soak your seeds overnight in distilled water, and then plant them ½" deep with the pointy end up in an indoor starter box to germinate. The growing medium should be a mixture of fertilizer, soil, compost, and sand so that it absorbs water well.





MOVE THE PLANTS OUTSIDE


When the sprouts are well established, transplant them into grow bags, allowing about one cubic foot of soil per plant, and space the plants at least two feet apart. Make sure you leave plenty of soil around the roots, so you don’t damage them. Water well before and after transplanting.

Ideally, the temperature around the plant should not exceed 75°F, and they will require between eight and sixteen hours of sunlight each day.

Not all marijuana strains are created equal, and some will not tolerate the harsh conditions of an outdoor grow. Do your research beforehand and make sure you’re using a strain that’s best suited to your climate. As a rule of thumb, sativa tends to be heartier and easier to grow in warm weather than its indica cousins.





HARVESTING


Your crop will produce both male and female plants, both of which contain THC (the major psychoactive chemical compound, tetrahydrocannabinol). The male plants are generally tall with stout stems and a few leaves, and they have little buds which look like little nuts. Harvest the male plants before they shed their pollen (unless you want the female to produce seeds). If the female plant is not pollinated, its flower will continue to grow and produce more THC than if it were allowed to produce seeds. Cut the plants at soil level.





CURING


If you simply pluck your marijuana buds off the plant and tuck them away until you are ready to smoke them, you run the risk that they’ll degrade and lose their potency. To ensure they’re shelf stable, you’ll want to cure them.

Hang your trimmed bud upside down in a dark room for one to two weeks, until the stems break easily when bent.

Remove the buds from the stems and place them in sealed mason jars stored in a cool, dark place.

At least twice daily, open the jars to “burp” them. This removes excess moisture. After two weeks, you can reduce the frequency to once every two days.

After four weeks, your marijuana is ready to enjoy. However, you can continue to cure it for eight weeks or longer to enhance the flavor and potency.





101. SNEAK ALCOHOL ONTO A CRUISE




On paper, cruises sound like a great way to travel the world without breaking the bank. A cruise liner offers all the luxury and accommodations of a hotel, but also doubles as your means of transportation—cutting a pricey airline ticket out of the equation. And that would be true, except for one crucial fact: Drink prices are through the roof, and security would sooner let you bring a barrel of nuclear waste on board than a bottle of scotch.





POTENT POTABLES


With several hundred miles of ocean separating you from the nearest liquor store, it’s not like you can reload once your stock runs low. This is one situation where you’ll want to emphasize quantity over quality. Beer and wine may be your beverages of choice when you’re landlocked, but the hard stuff is what you’ll want to bring with you on the open ocean.

Most people will be perfectly satisfied with any 80-proof spirits, but the best bang for your buck is in grain alcohols—which can top out at a staggering 190 proof. Sure, they taste like pure gasoline, but that’s nothing a little pineapple juice can’t fix.





OUTSMART SECURITY


The process of boarding a cruise ship is not too dissimilar to that of an airplane. Your luggage will be x-rayed, you’ll have to walk through a metal detector, and—if they suspect you’re hiding something—you’ll have to endure a pat down. Much like their TSA cousins, cruise ship security teams have seen it all, you can’t sweet talk them, and they will confiscate anything out of the ordinary without a second thought. You can beat them, but to do so, you need to strictly adhere to the following rules:

Don’t hide liquids inside things that don’t normally hold liquids. At face value, hiding a liter of vodka inside a hollowed-out pair of binoculars sounds brilliant. Until the security guard picks them up and asks the very reasonable question, “why does it feel like these binoculars are full of water?” Instead, focus on things like shampoo bottles, suntan lotion, body wash, or soda bottles.

Take the time to do it yourself. There are hundreds of fake shampoos, suntan lotions, and assorted containers you can buy that are made specifically for sneaking alcohol into places it isn’t welcome. Which would be great, if they weren’t so absurdly easy to spot. The security team won’t look twice at a popular soft drink…but you bet your ass they’re going to investigate a bottle of Koca Kola. Do yourself a favor and use the real thing.

Make it hard to find, and spread it out. If only 10 percent of the space in your luggage is filled with clothes, and the other 90 percent is filled with shampoo, lotion, and soda, guess who is going to be wearing the same pair of underwear and drinking at the bar all week. Instead, limit yourself to one alcoholic item per bag, and use your clothes to wrap up your stash and then wedge them in the bottom of your bag.





Plan B


If you do get caught—or you just aren’t cut out for bootlegging—all is not lost. Make friends with the all-inclusive passengers and convince them to grab free drinks for you from the bar. Better yet, go straight to the source and get chummy with the bartenders.





ABOUT THE AUTHOR


Owen Brooks enjoys learning about, and writing about, an array of topics and subject matter. He’s always up for a new adventure, and loves using his accumulated knowledge and experiences in his work whenever he can.





MEET THE AUTHORS, WATCH VIDEOS AND MORE AT

SimonandSchuster.com

www.SimonandSchuster.com/Authors/Owen-Brooks





We hope you enjoyed reading this Simon & Schuster ebook.

Get a FREE ebook when you join our mailing list. Plus, get updates on new releases, deals, recommended reads, and more from Simon & Schuster. Click below to sign up and see terms and conditions.



CLICK HERE TO SIGN UP



Already a subscriber? Provide your email again so we can register this ebook and send you more of what you like to read. You will continue to receive exclusive offers in your inbox.





INDEX


A note about the index: The pages referenced in this index refer to the page numbers in the print edition. Clicking on a page number will take you to the ebook location that corresponds to the beginning of that page in the print edition. For a comprehensive list of locations of any word or phrase, use your reading system’s search function.

Airplane crash, surviving, 40–42

Airplane flights, first class, 132–34

Airplane, landing, 114–15

Airplane tickets, free, 111–13

Alcohol, free, 199–201

Alcohol, sneaking, 266–68

Alien abduction, surviving, 30–31

Amputation, performing, 67–68

Anti-whaling crew, joining, 129–31

Ark of the Covenant, finding, 59–61

Asylum, claiming, 64–66

Atlantis, finding, 38–39

Attack dog, training, 195–96

Australian Outback, surviving, 147–48

Autobahn, driving on, 165–66

Automated external defibrillators (AEDs), 120



Bar hustle, executing, 182–84

BASE jumping, 101–2

Blowfish, eating, 116–17

Bondage, enjoying, 23–24

Bootlegger’s turn, 155–57

Bounty hunters, avoiding, 72–73

Bricks, breaking with hands, 106–8

Bug-out bag (BOB), 46–47

Busking, 242–43



Camping, 152–54

Car accident, surviving, 69–71

Car trunk, escaping, 188–90

Cliff diving, 179–81

Computer, destroying, 92–93

Cons, performing, 182–84, 231–34, 242–43

Copyrighted files, pirating, 21–22

Couples, breaking up, 185–87

CPR, performing, 118–20

Craigslist cons, 233–34

Crashing weddings, 10–12

Credit card rewards, 112–13, 243–45

Crop circles, creating, 79–80

Cruise, sneaking alcohol onto, 266–68



Dangerous animals, tracking, 162–64

Dating apps, abusing, 210–12

Defibrillators, using, 120

Disappearing, 49–50

Disasters, surviving, 46–48

Dogs, training, 195–96

Double life, living, 227–29

Driving techniques, 138–39, 155–57

Dumpster diving, 191–94



Earthquakes, surviving, 46, 47

Eiffel Tower, climbing, 13–14

Embassy, contacting, 121–22

Epidemic, surviving, 223–26

Escaping airplane, 40–42

Escaping car trunk, 188–90

Escaping prison, 8–9



Fake passport, getting, 126–28

Fall guy, creating, 256–58

Feud, winning, 205–7

Fires, surviving, 40, 48

Fire walking, 84–85

Floods, surviving, 48

Flying first class, 132–34

Flying for free, 111–13

Foreign jail, toughing out, 121–23

Frame-ups, 256–58

Fraternity, starting, 145–46

Fraud, committing, 77–78, 94–97, 254

Free climbing, 13–14

Free dive competitions, 6–7

Free drinks, 199–201

Free food, 10–11

Free plane tickets, 111–13

Friends, dropping, 237–39

Future, traveling to, 167–68



Gambling, cheating at, 142–44

Gangs, mafia, 27–29

Gangs, motorcycle, 149–51

Guard dog, training, 195–96

Gypsy curse, placing, 169–70



Hand brake turn, 155–56

Heart, restarting, 118–20

Himalayas, climbing, 62–63

Hitchhiking across country, 175–76

Homeowners associations (HOAs), 230–32

Hostage negotiations, 53–55

Hot coals, walking on, 84–85

Hurricane, surviving, 46



Identity, new, 50, 72–73, 77–78, 126–28

Identity theft, 28, 77–78, 128

Inland taipan, venomous, 163

Insurance scam, staging, 254–55

Interrogation tactics, 259–61



Jail, escaping, 8–9

Jail, surviving, 121–23

Jobs, acquiring, 202–4, 208–9

Jobs, payment for, 202–4

Jobs, qualifications for, 208–9

Jury duty, avoiding, 213–16



Kidnappers, negotiating with, 53–55



Laws, avoiding, 98–100

Leidenfrost effect, 84–85

Lie detector test, beating, 74–76

Life, proof of, 53

Limb, amputating, 67–68

Lunch thief, interrogating, 259–61



Mafia boss, becoming, 27–29

Magic tricks, performing, 96–97, 104–5, 242

Malaysian street racing, 138–39

Marijuana, growing, 262–65

Mayan ruins, accessing, 35–37

Medium, becoming, 103–5

Mercenary, becoming, 43–45

Mile-high club, joining, 177–78

Minefield, navigating, 18–20

Moonshine, making, 81–83

Moonshiner’s turn, 157

Motorcycle gang, starting, 149–51

Multilevel marketing schemes, 32–34

Muscles, building, 173–74



Neighbor, feud with, 205–7

New identity, 50, 72–73, 77–78, 126–28

Niagara Falls, going over, 90–91



Octopus, venomous, 163

Organized crime, 27–29, 128

Organs, selling, 86–87

Outback, surviving, 147–48



Panhandling, 240–42

Passport, fake, 126–28

Phishing scams, 78, 235

Piranhas, swimming with, 158–59

Plane crash, surviving, 40–42

Plane flights, first class, 132–34

Plane, landing on water, 114–15

Plane tickets, free, 111–13

Poison dart frog, finding, 164

Political asylum, claiming, 64–66

Polygraph test, beating, 74–76

Porn star, becoming, 51–52

Pranks, staging, 249–51

Prison, escaping, 8–9

Prison, surviving, 121–23

Private military contractor (PMC), 43–45

Proof of life, 53

Pyramid scheme, running, 32–34

Pyramids, climbing, 56–58



Raffle, rigging, 197–98

Ransoms, paying, 53–54

Religious icon, becoming, 94–97

Rich people, emulating, 252–53

Roadkill feasts, 220–22



Scams, staging, 28–29, 78, 93, 136–37, 235–36, 254–55

Scorpion, venomous, 162

Séances, performing, 103–5

Seats, upgrading, 132–34, 246–48

Secret societies, joining, 124–25

Shootings, surviving, 46, 48

Skydiving, 101–2

Snake charmer, becoming, 135–37

Snake, venomous, 163

Social media stalking, 217–19

Space program, joining, 88–89

Spammers, spamming, 235–36

Speed camera, beating, 25–26

Speed limit, breaking, 25–26, 165–66

Spider, venomous, 164

Spirits, contacting, 103–5

Sporting event seats, 246–48

Sporting event streaking, 171–72

Squatter’s rights, exercising, 109–10

State laws, avoiding, 98–100

Storm chasers, 15–17

Storms, surviving, 46, 48

Stowaways, 140–41

Streaking, 171–72

Street racing, 138–39

Survival gear, 46–47



Terrorist threats, 43, 46, 223, 259

Theft, identity, 28, 77–78, 128

Theft, petty, 28

Thief, interrogating, 259–61

Tickets, free, 111–13

Tickets, speeding, 25–26

Tiger attack, surviving, 152–54

Time traveling, 167–68

Tombstoning, 179–81

Tornado chasers, 15–17

Tornado, surviving, 46, 48

Tourniquet, making, 67–68

Tracking dangerous animals, 162–64

Trespassing, 80, 102, 109–10

Trunk, escaping, 188–90



Wedding crasher, 10–12

Weight lifting, 173–74

Whaling expeditions, joining, 129–31

Wilderness, escape to, 49–50



Yeti, hunting, 62–63



Zombies, detecting, 160–61





Adams Media

An Imprint of Simon & Schuster, Inc.

57 Littlefield Street

Avon, Massachusetts 02322

www.SimonandSchuster.com

Copyright © 2019 by Simon & Schuster, Inc.

All rights reserved, including the right to reproduce this book or portions thereof in any form whatsoever. For information address Adams Media Subsidiary Rights Department, 1230 Avenue of the Americas, New York, NY 10020.

First Adams Media trade paperback edition October 2019

ADAMS MEDIA and colophon are trademarks of Simon & Schuster.

For information about special discounts for bulk purchases, please contact Simon & Schuster Special Sales at 1-866-506-1949 or business@simonandschuster.com.

The Simon & Schuster Speakers Bureau can bring authors to your live event. For more information or to book an event contact the Simon & Schuster Speakers Bureau at 1-866-248-3049 or visit our website at www.simonspeakers.com.

Interior design by Allen Boe and Sylvia McArdle

Interior images © 123RF

Cover design by Sylvia McArdle

Cover images © 123RF

Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data

Names: Brooks, Owen, author.

Title: Forbidden knowledge / Owen Brooks.

Description: Avon, Massachusetts: Adams Media, 2019.

Identifiers: LCCN 2019023014 | ISBN 9781507211076 (pb) | ISBN 9781507211083 (ebook)

Subjects: LCSH: Conduct of life--Humor.

Classification: LCC PN6231.C6142 B76 2019 | DDC 818/.602--dc23

LC record available at https://lccn.loc.gov/2019023014

ISBN 978-1-5072-1107-6

ISBN 978-1-5072-1108-3 (ebook)

Many of the designations used by manufacturers and sellers to distinguish their products are claimed as trademarks. Where those designations appear in this book and Simon & Schuster, Inc., was aware of a trademark claim, the designations have been printed with initial capital letters.

Certain sections of this book deal with activities that would be in violation of various federal, state, and local laws if actually carried out. We do not advocate the breaking of any law. The authors, Adams Media, and Simon & Schuster, Inc. do not accept liability for any injury, loss, legal consequence, or incidental or consequential damage incurred by reliance on the information or advice provided in this book. The information in this book is for entertainment purposes only.

Contains material adapted from the following title published by Adams Media, an Imprint of Simon & Schuster, Inc.: The Most Forbidden Knowledge by Michael Powell and Matt Forbeck, copyright © 2013 by Gusto Company AS, ISBN 978-1-4405-6092-7.





